They may be great fashion accessories but, more importantly, sunglasses are of extreme importance when it comes to maintaining good eye health.
Dr. Kerry Beebe, O.D., gives his patients two reasons – health and comfort — when explaining why they should wear sunglasses.
"From a health standpoint, you want to keep all ultraviolet light from getting into your eyes and onto the lids and the skin around them," said Beebe, of the Brainerd Eye Care Center in Brainerd, Minn. "From a comfort standpoint, some people are very sensitive to brightness and glare. By cutting down brightness and glare, people will visually perform better and be more comfortable."
Beebe said sunglasses protect the eyes from painful sunburns and may help slow down cataracts and macular degeneration. Also, the skin around the eyes, including the lids, is one of the most prone to skin cancer.
"So certainly protecting the skin around the eyes with UV-filtering sunglasses is a good way to prevent skin cancer in that area," he said.
From a comfort standpoint, polarized lenses are the most effective lenses for blocking glare. However, they can be inhibitive to people playing outdoor sports like golf.
People should always look for sunglasses that block out 99 percent of ultraviolet A and ultraviolet B rays, said Beebe. Although buying sunglasses from a doctor's office is the best guarantee of getting a pair of sunglasses that are effective in protecting eyes from ultraviolet rays, some low-cost sunglasses are now carrying optometric "seals of acceptance," which guarantee their effectiveness.
"You don't necessarily have to have the expensive glasses to block out UV rays," Beebe said. "A lot of times the expense comes from the quality of the frames and the optics of the lens. Some lenses are optically ground and are much more distortion free than other glasses that have more of pressed lens where there may be more distortion."
Reasons to Wear Sunglasses
1.) UV Protection. The sun's UV radiation can cause cataracts; benign growths on the eye's surface; and photokeratitis, sometimes called snow blindness, which is a temporary but painful sunburn of the eye's surface. Wide-brimmed hats and caps can block about 50 percent of UV radiation from the eyes but optometrists say that is not enough protection.
2.) Blue-Light Protection. Long-term exposure to the blue and violet portion of the solar spectrum has been implicated as a risk factor for macular degeneration, especially for individuals that are "sun sensitive."
3.) Comfortable vision. The sun's brightness and glare interferes with comfortable vision and the ability to see clearly by causing people to squint and the eyes to water.
4.) Dark adaptation. Spending just two or three hours in bright sunlight can hamper the eyes' ability to adapt quickly to nighttime or indoor light levels. This can make driving at night after spending a day in the sun more hazardous.
5.) Skin Cancer. Cancer of the eyelids and skin around the eyes is more common than people think. People should wear sunglasses outdoors whether they are working, driving, participating in sports, taking a walk, running errands or doing anything in the sun.
Five Tips for Healthy Eyes
1.) Wear protective eyewear any time your eyes are exposed to UV light, even on cloudy days and during winter months.
2.) Look for quality sunglasses that offer good protection. Sunglasses should block out 99 to 100 percent of both UVA and UVB radiation and screen out 75 to 90 percent of visible light.
3.) Check to make sure your sunglass lenses are perfectly matched in color and free of distortions and imperfections.
4.) Purchase gray-colored lenses. They reduce light intensity without altering the color of objects, providing the most natural color vision.
5.) Don't forget protection for children and teenagers. They typically spend more time in the sun than adults.

The U.S. Marines could deploy a host of futuristic military technology to "storm the beaches."
Included in the new technology are machine-gun toting robots that charge up the beaches as advance assault, as well as speedboats that instantly transformed into small stealthy submarines diving beneath the surface to avoid detection.
For the past two weeks, the Navy and Marine Corps have been quietly testing about 50 new fascinating technologies out at Camp Pendleton, at the Ship-to-Shore Maneuver Exploration and Experimentation Advanced Naval Technology Exercise 2017, in California.
The exercise is investigating how the military can leverage the latest technological advances for ship-to-the-shore, or the space between the Naval ship and the beach where they could potentially land.
Sailors and Marines have been experimenting with the technology and evaluating the wide range of sea, air and land innovations in a variety of realistic scenarios.
The tech includes amphibious vehicles, but also drones like quadcopters and potentially weapon-wielding ground robots.
Why add this new technology?
In light of escalating tensions around the globe, the event is timely because "storming the beaches" has changed a lot since it was done in Normandy, France during World War 2.
Adversaries now possess technology that makes it difficult – if not impossible – to surprise them with a large-scale amphibious invasion. Even a kid with a social media account could post a picture that tips off forces are attempting a covert approach, making covert operations that much more difficult.
DRONE SAILBOAT TRANSFORMS INTO SPY SUB
By using the newest advanced technology, it can help Marines to mount an aggressive beach invasion – and do it in a way that significantly reduces the risk to the lives of Marines compared to times past.
In this exercise, the Marines have been integrating the tech, such as robots, to explore how they can provide advantages in future wars. Drones can be assigned scout type roles collecting data, conducting surveillance and doing reconnaissance.
If robots are deployed to go ashore first, it could save Marine lives.
Armed MUTTS
Expand / Contract
(Credit: Office of Naval Research, Photo by John Williams. Camp Pendleton, California)
But new autonomous fighting machines, like the machine-gun toting MUTT robot, could also provide decisive advantages.
Designed by General Dynamics, Multi-Utility Tactical Transports (MUTTs) are smart, ATV-sized robots mounted with machine guns that can charge up a beach and drive themselves, while helping dismount small units.
Surf, sand and steep inclines are not going to stop the water-friendly MUTTs. The vehicles drive on tracks, or wheels, and there are two wheeled variants: 8x8 and 6x6.
The robot can be mounted with a range of different weapons, including machine guns.
THESE NEW KINDS OF BULLETS ARE LETHAL UNDERWATER
The Browning M2 .50 caliber machine gun that weighs about 84 pounds is one option. Others include the belt-fed fully automatic FN Hershel 240B medium machine gun and the classic SAW (Squad Automatic Weapon M249).
Beyond machine guns, they've also been successfully kitted out with options like 60mm mortars.
Handy for forces on the move, MUTTs can integrate into the human squad and ease some of the burdens of the soliders
Able to carry approximately 600 pounds, ground forces can harness the power of this weapon without having to lug around the weight themselves. Hence, the MUTT can carry the heavy weapons that provide even more serious firepower.
Less weight means warfighters can move faster while reducing fatigue and improving force protection.
Hyper Sub - The Fathom
Expand / Contract
Credit: U.S. Marines
The Fathom, made by Reynolds Marion, is a speedboat that transforms into a submarine.
Sleek and black, it looks like something that would be a must-have for Batman.
RUSSIA UNVEISL KAZAN NUCLEAR SUB, A POWERFUL NEW WEAPON IN ITS NAVAL ARSENAL
Aside from the hybrid speedboat-submarine being worthy of a Hollywood summer blockbuster, it could potentially be used for tasks like scouting and surveillance. It could travel rapidly ahead of the fleet speeding along the surface.
Marion calls the hybrid Fathom, a "HyperSub." A specific model was created and brought to this exercise with details rather hush hush. But in general, the HyperSub can deploy from a beach or a dock and with its two 480-hp Yanmar 6LY3-ETP diesel engines reach cruising speeds of 38 mph.
To evade enemy detection, it could dive beneath the surface. Able to recharge dive air and batteries, the vehicle can dive repeatedly. It is designed to provide protection from pressure changes.
The HyperSub has more than 30,000 pounds of lift on demand. When the "coast is clear," the Fathom can surface again and zip along the shore conducting surveillance.
The dry chamber, where the vehicle is driven and personnel sit, can be customized.
Another hybrid that the Navy and Marine Corps has been testing in this exercise is the solar and wind powered Submaran. This innovation is part sailboat and part submarine.
The stakes?
The United States used to be able to rely on Naval supremacy. But now, countries like China – who just revealed a new aircraft carrier this week are expanding and advancing their Naval capabilities rapidly.
Terrorists can cause damage and loss of life by taking advantage of the accessibility and low price point of devices like basic unmanned aerial vehicles combined with readily available explosive material.
Identifying and exploring useful new technologies and rapidly transitioning them to the force is an important step to maintaining US maritime supremacy and reducing risk to the lives of Marines in future conflicts.

There's a new stealth bomber joining the U.S. Air Force and it will be one incredible aircraft. In war, this strike aircraft can fly deep into hostile areas – undetected – where it can unleash serious munitions against an enemy.
The Air Force announced Tuesday that it chose Northrop Grumman to build the next generation long-range strike bomber. The Air Force has not yet chosen a name for the aircraft, which folks are referring to as "B-3".
The new strike bomber will start deploying in about a decade. The aircraft is expected to replace the nearly four-decades old B-1 as well as the legendary B-52 Stratofortress that has served the country for about six decades.
Related: Marine Corps' new helicopter completes its first flight
This new bomber will be fully loaded with lots of technologies and next-gen innovations that are cloaked in secrecy. It may even withstand nuclear weapon-generated electromagnetic pulses (EMPs) and still operate.
What will it be like?
The military has kept details of the wish list for its new bomber classified.
During the Super Bowl, Northrop Grumman's ad featured a new aircraft shrouded in mystery – literally cloaked at one point. Some industry experts believe this was a representation of Northrop's vision for the new mysterious bomber.
We can look to the B-2 bomber, also made by Northrop, for an idea of what we might expect. The B-2 aircraft has been a mainstay for the military with its stealth long-range and big payload strike bomber capabilities.
Related: Navy taps Raytheon for sophisticated 'last chance' gun system
The B-2 Spirit Bomber carries a crew of two and took its first flight in 1989 and entered the operational fleet in 1993. The original B-2 fleet was 21 aircraft.
The four 19,000-pound-thrust F118-GE engines give the B-2 its power, allowing it to fly more than 600 miles per hour. With a 172-foot wingspan, the B-2 can fly to a ceiling of 50,000 feet.
B-2 is built for stealth. During the Cold War, it was designed to beat air defense systems, penetrating deep into Soviet Union airspace and deliver a nuclear bomb if necessary. Its design allows it to evade radar and makes it tough to detect. Instead of metal, the structure is made from advanced composites like resin-impregnated graphite fiber.
Related: Meet 'Viper' - the newest F-16 Fighter
The aircraft can travel a very long range - to approximately 6,000 nautical miles. If the aircraft is refueled while in the air, then it can fly even farther - an additional 4,000 miles without landing.
This bomber can carry more than 40,000 pounds of nuclear or conventional munitions – that's the kind of power that can dramatically change the battle space in one flight. The aircraft is designed to deliver these munitions precisely on target even in adverse weather conditions.
Whiteman Air Force Base in Missouri is home to the majority of the current B-2 fleet. The aircraft has deployed recently in combat in Libya, Afghanistan and Iraq.
Related: 11 stunning F-22 fighter jet images
Since it was introduced more than 20 years ago, many advances have been incorporated to improve the B-2's lethality. The aircraft's ability to receive updated target data while in the midst of a mission was also improved. Other upgrade programs improved the B-2's capabilities to collect, process and then distribute battlefield data to teams throughout the world.
The sleek B-2 has a unique flying wing design that supports its radar evasion and hard to detect design. The Super Bowl commercial showed a sort of bat wing shape, similar to B-2, but the specs of the new plane have remained secret.
"The Air Force has made the right decision for our nation's security," said Northrop Grumman CEO Wes Bush, in a statement regarding Tuesday's announcement. "As the company that developed and delivered the B-2 Spirit stealth bomber, we look forward to providing the Air Force with a highly-capable and affordable next-generation Long-Range Strike Bomber."
Ultimately, the military is expected to invest about $80 billion in creating this game-changing tech. According to current U.S. Air Force estimates, the B-3 stealth aircraft will be about $564 million a pop.
Ballet dancer turned defense specialist Allison Barrie has traveled around the world covering the military, terrorism, weapons advancements and life on the front line. You can reach her at wargames@foxnews.com or follow her on Twitter @Allison_Barrie.

Has Russia created the most powerful nuclear submarine in the world? Silent. Stealthy. Lethal.
Russia recently unveiled the Kazan, a new Yasen-class nuclear attack submarine that can destroy subs, surface ships and even entire bases. The country is touting the Kazan as its most powerful sub … EVER.
The launch of the sub was held in northern Russia at the Sevmash shipyard in Severodvinsk. Russia released the details through its state news agency TASS.
Marking a return to Cold War submarine patrol levels, Admiral Vladimir Korolyov also noted Russian submarine crews spent more than 3,000 days on patrol in 2016.
DARPA'S UNMANNED SUB-HUNTER SET TO REVOLUTIONIZE NAVAL WARFARE
Russia plans to have seven of these powerful submarines in play within 6 years.  The attack subs will join 6 new stealth submarines in the fleet, nicknamed "black holes" because they are so hard to detect.
It is expected that the Kazan can strike targets 1,500 miles away and conduct missions for 100 days carrying a crew of approximately 90 sailors.
What kind of weapons does it carry?
The Kazan sub can carry 300 torpedoes. Each of the ten 533mm torpedo tubes has an ammunition load of 30.
In addition, the sub will carry eight Oniks and Kalibr cruise missiles.
A NEW COMBAT VEHICLE THAT SWIMS FOR THE MARINE CORPS
These long-range Kalibr cruise missiles were deployed for the first time in combat during the Russian campaign in Syria, according to Russian officials. In November 2015, the Russian Defence Ministry released footage described as the Rostov-on-Don diesel-electric stealth submarine firing missiles at targets in the country.
Kalibrs are said to be able to hit sea targets about 220 miles away and ground targets more than 1,500 miles away. Russia has said that the missiles are so precise that they will hit a target within about 10 feet.
To put that into context, this submarine could be stealthily submerged in the waters between Greenland and Canada. From there, it could theoretically launch a Kalibr missile that would be able to reach and strike New York City.
U.S. submarines use powerful Tomahawk missiles that have a similar range.
What does it look like?
The Kazan is about 456 feet long and about 43 feet wide. This sub is a beast. On the surface, it displaces 8,600 tons. When it is submerged underwater, it displaces about 13,800 tons.
The sub can travel at speeds of up to about 31 knots and can reach depths of around 2,000 feet below the surface.
THE 'SEA WASP' WILL BE A POTENT THREAT TO TERRORISTS AND THEIR UNDERWATER BOMBS
The submarine is nuclear powered and harnesses 43,000 horsepower from a single-shaft steam turbine nuclear power unit.
What can subs be used for?
Submarines are potent weapons in a nation's arsenal. They can be used for attacks against enemy subs, ships and assets on the ground, as well as in the air. These stealthy state-of-the art weapons can also be harnessed for other missions, such as surveillance.
In fact, they are even used to carry, and stealthily insert, special operations teams into hostile areas in a covert way.
HIDDEN HIGH-TECH OCEAN PODS WILL UNLEASH NAVAL DRONES
Listen to a Navy SEAL explain what it is like inside a submarine on missions and reveal how submarines shoot them out of torpedo tubes.
And subs are a platform for nuclear weapons.
Rise of Russian Submarines 2.0
A number of recent international submarine scuffles have made it into the public domain.
In November 2015, a Russian sub was spotted off the coast of Scotland and the RAF scrambled in response.
In another example, the following year Russia claimed a Dutch sub was spying in the Mediterranean and that two of its ships had chased it away.
AUSTRALIA'S $39 BILLION SUBMARINE DEAL HERALDS NEW ERA OF SUPER-SUBS
The Arctic is one area where submarine scuffles will likely intensify. A race to control the Arctic has already been long underway with Russia building up its forces there.
Submarines will continue to play a fundamental role in Russia's strategic objectives there. Russian officials have not been shy about making statements on how more subs will be joining the fleet in the area.
Why are things escalating under the water there?
As the ice melts and recedes it opens up opportunities. For example, a faster shipping route between Europe and Asia could open up. And of course, there will be newly accessible, significant natural resources like oil and gas. These are just two massively lucrative and motivating factors.
FOR THE LATEST TECH FEATURES FOLLOW FOX NEWS TECH ON FACEBOOK
The U.S. has a formidable submarine fleet that includes attack submarines, ballistic missile submarines and guided missile submarines.  The Navy deploys three classes of attack subs: the Los Angeles, Seawolf and Virginia. All of these subs can perform a range of missions from surveillance through to striking a target from a great distance with Tomahawk cruise missiles.
Ohio Class Ballistic (SSBN) Missile submarines, known as "Boomers," have a strategic nuclear deterrence mission and can operate underwater for months.

A new breed of bullets could be used for underwater firefights.
The CAV-X supercavitating bullets, made by DSG Technology, are designed to deliver lethality at much farther distances underwater.
For special operations teams, such as the Navy SEALs and combat divers who operate around water, this sort of ammunition could be handy.
Availability and the tech behind it
Water is denser than air and with the extra drag bullets fast lose their velocity. Additionally, regular bullets tend to be inaccurate and have a short range underwater, so their utility is limited.
(MythBusters did a great demonstration where they showed even a sniper rifle couldn't get a bullet more than a couple of feet before it sank.)
RUSSIA UNVEILS KAZAN NUCLEAR SUB, A POWER NEW WEAPON IN ITS NAVAL ARSENAL
These bullets don't require a special weapon to use these bullets; they're compatible with regular weapons, which is a definite advantage.
These new bullets have something known as supercavitation, which helps keep the bullet protected from the water's density.
By creating supercavitating ammunition, it helps form a bubble around the bullet, enveloping the object. With the bubble's frictionless surface, it reduces that drag through the water and increases speed.
Supercavitation is something militaries have long investigated, with applications in creating faster torpedoes or underwater vehicles.
With torpedoes, for example, one approach has been to eject gas out of the nose of the torpedo to create the bubble, which could help the torpedo surpass speeds of more than 200 miles per hour.
The bullets are designed to provide excellent penetration even at low angles. At Navy League Air Sea Space, the DSG team showcased a plate to demonstrate the difference between regulation ammunition and its offerings. At a low angle, regular ammo ricocheted, but the DGS ammo penetrated.
NFL PLAYERS AND COMBAT VETERANS JOIN FORCES TO SAVE LIVES
Enhancing the ability to shoot from low angles could also be helpful around water work such as shooting from submerged positions or entry into and exit from water.
How could this kind of bullet be used?
The ammunition can be used in an underwater firefight (known as water-to-water), but there are other applications as well.
It can also be useful for air-to-water requirements like shooting rounds into the water from a helicopter, Zodiac or littoral combat ship deck.
These bullets could also be useful in the reverse as in shooting from underwater at a target above water. Teams could stealthily approach a vessel from underwater and from a submerged, hidden position shoot adversaries onboard.
Potential applications for the ammunition include countering piracy and protecting ports.
How effective is this "swimming" ammo?
The company is currently offering the bullets in NATO 12.7, 7.62, 5.56mm and smaller calibers.
HERE'S HOW 'INVISIBLE ARMOR' COULD DEFEAT BULLETS AND BLADES
Taking the 5.56 mm NATO Cav-X as one example, the company says the typical effective range in the water is 35 feet. For sub-sonic, it is about 43 feet in the water.
Machine gun round 12.7mm NATO Cav-X has an effective range of nearly 200 feet underwater, according to the company.
The 7.62 NATO Cav-X has an effective range of approximately 72 feet and 5.56 NATO Cav-X about 46 feet.
According to the company, at larger calibers, the ammunition could even potentially defeat torpedoes and even a submarine.
Listen to a Navy SEAL sniper from SEAL Team 6 explain missions involving rivers and oceans here.

(Credit: Ocean Aero)
Part sailboat - part submarine, a new remarkable drone can patrol the oceans for months without stopping, powered by only the wind and the sun.
Developed by Ocean Aero, the Submaran S10 is autonomous, able to conduct missions on its own. This drone can sail on the surface of the ocean and then transform to dive beneath the surface travelling, similar to a submarine.
The hybrid drone can dive to depths of about 660 feet, which makes it useful not only for avoiding detection, but to discreetly conduct its own surveillance as well.
THESE NEW KINDS OF BULLETS ARE LETHAL UNDERWATER
Because of its ability to be powered by renewable energy, the Submaran can go farther than many other battery or fuel-powered drones. In addition, it can be launched from ships, boats, piers and even an aircraft.
Along with protecting the US coastlines, technology like this could be used to quietly monitor, surveil and collect information for defense and intelligence.
What does it look like
Expand / Contract
(Credit: Ocean Aero)
Not to be confused with a remote-controlled boat children play with, the Submaran is enormous.
It's about the size of a Laser sailboat, at 13.5 feet long. It weighs nearly 280 pounds and with the wingsail up, the Submaran is an impressive 8 feet high.
Similar to an everyday sailboat, the self-sailing Submaran has a sail, but the sail has been designed to be retractable for underwater use.
Like some racing boats, the Submaran has a bulb keel, which allows for stability and counterforce for self-righting.
RUSSIA UNVEILS KAZAN NUCLEAR SUB, A POWERFUL NEW WEAPON IN ITS NAVAL ARSENAL
The Submaran incorporates solar panels on the outside for both its rechargeable batteries and thruster power; there is also an auxiliary thruster for additional power.
The design also incorporates stability ballast tanks. Included in the Submaran are a communications antenna, anemometer, LED navigation, light and a 360-degree camera.
How powerful is it?
While it may not win any races, the Submaran is stealthy enough to be used for its main purpose -- monitoring and information gathering.
Reaching a maximum speed of up to 5 knots, the Submaran relies on solar-charged lithium batteries -- which provide around 50 watts of power -- to travel and to provide energy to the tech onboard. When it comes to the surface, the sail provides further power using wind.
It's able to carry more than 50 pounds of payload, which could include anything from satellite communications and ISR sensors to wave, weather, seismic survey and even hydrocarbon detection technology.
GET TACTICAL: 8 MARCH MADNESS MUST-HAVES
Security applications
About 71 percent of the world's surface is water and there are quite a few threats that can lurk in these waters.
The military could use the tech to map littoral ocean floors, while also conducting stealth surveillance in littoral areas in advance of upcoming missions to aid planning.
Submaran could travel long, open ocean distances to conduct intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) operations in a stealthy way with its relatively low signature.
There's a big difference between war on the open ocean and in littoral or coastal areas. Surveillance, support for landing operations, the proverbial "storm the beaches" and covert infiltration are a few things that can happen in littoral areas.
Countries like Russia and China have been aggressively expanding their submarine fleets. This drone could patrol and monitor for growing threats like diesel electric submarines.
Floating minefields pose a threat to the military as well as commercial shipping and civilians at sea, which the Submaran can help to counter.
The United States has millions of miles of shoreline, so technology like the Submaran could also be useful for surveillance and monitoring around ports and vessels as well as coastal law enforcement.
Other applications
In addition to defense and security, Submaran could be used for a range of other applications. The drone could also be deployed to protect offshore oil platforms and oil pipelines, for example.
By monitoring and patrolling, the drone could help protect the world's fish stocks that have been rapidly depleting due to unregulated poaching of fisheries.
In addition to ocean exploration, the Submaran can also be useful for purposes like marine mammal tracking and monitoring the environment and sample collection.

A key ally to the United States, Australia, is ramping up their military might with $39 billion in futuristic submarines.
Mega stealth, ultra state of the art and jam-packed with advanced next-gen tech and weaponry…this new fleet of submarines will bring decisive power to any fight.
Related: 'Sea Hunter': World's first unmanned ship stalks subs
French company DCNS is developing the new, cutting-edge Shortfin Barracuda Block 1A submarine for the Royal Australian Navy. The project will be a collaboration between Australia and France- but the United States is also expected to play a vital role.
DCNS will be leveraging the state-of-the-art technology originally created for its big brother - the French Navy's Barracuda attack submarine.
The powerful French subs are aptly named after the Barracuda fish that tends to incite fear with its large size and scary predatory look. Rapid and powerful, it is a smart, formidable hunter known to deploy clever tactics like working together to drive fish into shallow water and trap them.   Naturally lean and stealthy, barracudas excel at stalking targets hidden from their sight until they strike – just like these mega stealth submarines.
Why is the new sub called Shortfin Barracuda? Shortfins are native to Australia's Great Barrier Reef.
And while many details remain confidential and shrouded in secrecy, DCNS, France and Australia have revealed some key elements. Here's what we know…
Capable of conducting missions for about 80 days straight, a crew of 60 sub- and possibly more than 20 Special Operations Operators - will be able to fit into the approximately 320 foot long sub.
The big brother Barracuda design has a hatch that can hold up to eight Special Operations Operators for insertion and extraction missions. It is likely that the Shortfin will include a similar vital feature.
The Shortfin can deep dive to depths of 1150 feet and when it dives, it displaces more than 4,000 tons.
Speed and Propulsion
The Shortfin Barracuda has a top speed of more than 20 knots  - that's 23 miles per hour.
To reach these speeds and range, the Shortfin Barracuda relies on modern propulsion. The sub's pump jet propulsion replaces the old school obsolete propeller tech found on many fleets around the world.
The French version is nuclear powered, however Australia has opted for diesel-electric propulsion. Shortfin's hydroplanes will be able to retract and this plays a role in helping to reduce both drag and noise; The quieter the sub, the harder it is for bad guys to find it.
Related: Drone ships are now coming to the open ocean thanks to the US Navy
During operations, the new sub can cover 18,000 nautical miles at 10 knots or 11.5 mph and this will be particularly useful for Australia's patrolling of vast ocean distances.
One of the key features is the Shortfin Barracuda's stealth capability. Shortfin will leverage state-of-the-art tech that dramatically reduces signature.
In a rather landmark decision, France is offering Australia access to their advanced-stealth tech designed for their top-tier subs like the nuclear-powered general-purpose attack submarines and their ballistic missile submarines.
Australia's Defence Force could deploy the Shortfins as intelligence-gathering platforms, but also as a forceful deterrent that stealthily patrols vast distances armed with state of the art weapons systems.
The Shortfin weaponry could include French heavyweight DCNS's F21 torpedoes and sea mines. In terms of missiles, it could also be armed with French DCNS's Exocets (Flying Fish) to launch against ships. It could also be armed with DCNS's A3SMs to defend against air threats from aircraft like helicopters and drones.
But it is also expected that The United States will also play a role in Australia's new subs, particularly in providing weapons and integrated combat systems.
DCNS asserts that the Shortfin Barracuda will also be equipped with the world's most powerful sonar ever produced for a conventional submarine.
Related: DARPA's unmanned sub-hunter set to revolutionize naval warfare
The Shortfin Barracuda will replace several Australian Navy Collins subs that will reach retirement age in about a decade. During the selection process, the Shortfin beat out Japan's Soryu-class and German firm TKMS' Type-216.
To ensure the sub stays at the cutting-edge across the board throughout its service life, there are quick-access tech insert hatches in its design. As tech evolves during the sub's time in service, Australia can use the hatches to add the latest tech and upgrade the sub's capabilities.
The Collins will need to stay in service for another several years until the Shortfins are ready. The Shortfins are expected to be operational in the early 2030s.

The NRL-developed transparent polymer armor consists of alternating layers of elastomeric polymer and a harder material substrate. Very small crystalline domains, which also provide rigidity, give the polymer its transparency. (U.S. Naval Research Laboratory)
Ever wonder if there was such a thing as transparent armor? It sounds like something straight out of a comic book, but it's something the Navy has actually created.
U.S. Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) scientists have created a remarkable transparent armor that is lightweight and still provides excellent protection.
HOW AMBULANCE COULD HELP PREVENT DIRTY BOMBS
Nearly as transparent as glass, the armor is essentially invisible protection from bullets. And if the armor surface is damaged, warfighters could fix it on the fly with something as simple as a hot plate and the armor will meld itself back together.
Think about how "bulletproof glass" (a misnomer since it is often only bullet resistant) works – you can see through it and it stops bullets.
Now what if you could do that for body armor and helmets? That's the idea here.
HOW TO MAKE YOUR CELL PHONE SELF-DESTRUCT 'MISSION IMPOSSIBLE' STYLE
This next-generation armor advance could also amp up transparent bulletproof walls to protect tourist attractions from the attacks we've seen in Paris and most recently, in London.
What's the armor made of?
The transparent polymer armor gets its transparency from something known as tiny crystalline domains. The armor itself is made up of alternating layers of elastomeric polymer combined with a harder material substrate.
NRL scientists conducted tests using polymeric materials as a coating to try to enhance impact resistance.
By applying layers of the special materials to body armor and helmets, the result was better protection for warriors against bullets.
INCREDIBLE TECH DETECTS GUNFIRE ACROSS AMERICA
The armor also helped reduce the impact of blast waves caused by something like an IED explosion, which could potentially help prevent brain trauma.
When a bullet hits the armor
If you picture a windshield that has been struck by a rock kicked up while driving, the rock's impact may cause damage that makes it difficult to see through the windshield.
One of the amazing things about this see-through armor is that when it's struck by a projectile, such as a bullet, it still retains its lucid nature. There's virtually no impact on visibility and the damage is limited only to the spot where the bullet connected with the armor.
Repair vs. replace
The possibility exists that this futuristic body armor could be ironed back into shape after it sustained some hits, because of the material used to create it.
The material needs to be heated to around 100 degrees Celsius, which then causes it to become hot enough to melt the tiny crystallites. By heating the material, any impact from the bullet can be melded back together and returned to its normal state. Scientists believe that this sort of repair will not impact how the armor performs.
THIS FOAM STOPS BULLETS COLD AND PULVERIZES THEM TO DUST
Easy, fast repairs can be a great advantage for warfighters operating in remote locations and it can save money by repairing rather than replacing.
Implications for protecting against global terror attacks
In a scenario like the recent London attack, lightweight body armor approaches like the aforementioned can be very useful to protect armed officers from bladed weapons, bullets and other threats while the reduced weight can improve their speed, agility and flexibility of response.
Like the Capitol building in the US, armed officers protect the building and those working in and visiting the building. Based on the information provided publicly thus far, the terrorist wielded a bladed weapon and attacked British officers. One officer was tragically killed.
Guns and explosive devices are not the only methods of attack used by Islamic extremist terrorists. In Europe, terrorist plots and attacks have increasingly involved bladed weapons on foot as well the weaponization of vehicles.
Islamic extremist groups such as al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) and the Islamic State group have been actively promoting these sorts of attack methods.
FOR THE LATEST TECH FEATURES FOLLOW FOX NEWS TECH ON FACEBOOK
Just last month in Paris, a terrorist tried to launch an attack with machetes at the popular tourist site of the Louvre museum. A French soldier stopped him before there were any casualties.
In 2013, two terrorists drove at British Army soldier Fusilier Lee Rigby, who was walking a street in England. The terrorists then exited the vehicle, attacked him with blades and murdered him by hacking him to death.
Invisible Walls?
Ultimately, advances like NRLs in transparent armor could play a vital role in amping up "invisible" walls could be used to stop both people and vehicles from storming sites and areas. By enhancing protection, it could help prevent attacks and casualties.
Paris recently announced they are building an eight-foot bulletproof glass wall around the Eiffel Tower. Why? Tourist sites are attractive targets for terrorists. The goal is to stop not just bullets but prevent vehicles loaded with bombs from gaining access.
Transparent armor-ed up walls mean tourists can still enjoy an uninterrupted view while benefiting from enhanced protection.
Advanced armor like this can also become a deterrent to future attacks.
THIS FOAM STOPS BULLETS COLD AND PULVERIZES THEM TO DUST
THIS FOAM STOPS BULLETS COLD AND PULVERIZES THEM TO DUST

(Forward Operating Base Brewing Company)
Gear up to party like a tactical professional this year to watch the Final Four NCAA college basketball teams. Arm up for the action with a party-friendly Tank, Forward Operating Base beers and more.
Here are 8 March Madness must-haves to get tactical this year at your Final Four parties.
Forward Operating Base Beers
Washington-based Forward Operating Base Brewing Company aims to craft beers "as bold, courageous and honorable as the men and women of our military!"
Stop by to watch the games or reach out to them to get some of their excellent beers with a tactical twist like  "Napalm in the Morning" an Imperial Brown Ale brewed with De Espresso Liber Coffee, the "M4: American Pale Ale" and "C-130: American Double IPA."
Beers tend to be available in the $4-6 dollar range.
Adult Beverages Covert Delivery System
You can't show up to a Final Four party empty handed.
To get your adult beverages from home to the party, gear up and get your hands on a limited edition Multicam Black Covert Box Messenger made by 5.11 Tactical.
Expand / Contract
(5.11 Tactical)
NFL PLAYERS AND COMBAT VETERANS JOIN FORCES TO SAVE LIVES
This bag can carry a G36C submachine gun so your March Madness food and drink supplies are in safe pair of hands and there's plenty of space.
Beyond leveraging it as a covert Final Four adult beverage delivery system, this bag is a great for work. It fits a seventeen-inch laptop with ease. And for those in tactical professions, there's a concealed quick draw front pocket and low profile mag pockets.
Available for $169.99.
Fighter Jet Ammo Bottle Opener
You can't drink beer if you can't open that bottle and let's face it … bottle openers rapidly become impossible to find at parties. But not this one.
Why bring an ordinary bottle opener, when you can bring a 25MM Bullet Bottle Opener that was fired out of a Gatling Gun.
Expand / Contract
(Lucky Shot USA)
HERE'S HOW 'INVISIBLE ARMOR' COULD DEFEAT BULLETS AND BLADES
Lucky Shot USA makes these from real, demilitarized, stealthy fighter jet F-35A GAU-22 authentic once-fired rounds. The steel shell casing is procured from the U.S. military.
This is one bottle opener it will be easy for everyone to find throughout the party and you won't lose. At 8.5 inches long, it is a big as a beer bottle.
Available for $34.99 and you can have it engraved for your party. Lucky Shot USA also offers a military 10 percent discount.
This drinking device takes game day beers to another level. Back by popular demand to the top picks list, the Battle Mug classic, made by Battle Mug, has Picatinny Rails so if need be, you can mount optics to get a good view of the action on that screen.
Expand / Contract
(Battle Mug)
Didn't have time to hit the gym before the game? You can feel less guilty with this device since you've got to hoist 2 pounds with every sip. The Battle Mug is machined from a 10.5-pound hunk of aluminum. You can also laser engrave it to make it clear who you're supporting this year.
Available for $189. The lightweight polymer version is available for $45.00.
Shot by a Weapon Shot Glasses
It wouldn't be March Madness without drinking games. Lucky Shot USA makes two great options: one made from A-10 fighter aircraft ammo and one with a literal bullet stuck in it.
The 30MM Shot glasses are made from ammo fired by the A-10 Thunderbolt II aircraft GAU-8 Avenger rotary cannon. The ammo comes in armor piercing and high explosive versions.
Expand / Contract
(Lucky Shot USA)
HOW TO MAKE YOUR CELL PHONE SELF-DESTRUCT 'MISSION IMPOSSIBLE' STYLE
For your March Madness shot needs, these rounds are demilitarized, anodized, cut down and rendered totally safe without any active gun powder or primers.
Another fun choice is the shot glass with a REAL .308 Bullet stuck right in the glass. Lucky Shot USA describes this as a shot "without mercy."
The 30MM Shot Glass set is available for $14.99 and the .308 Real Bullet Handblown Shot Glass for $12.99. Lucky Shot offers engraving and a 10 percent military discount.
Take your March Madness to the next level with a Tank.
Don't be less than JV and serve up warm beers. Gear up and protect your guests' beers from the heat with this beast.
YETI describes its TANK as a "nearly indestructible party machine." These robust tubs are armored to survive the most rowdy of Final Four parties. And they leverage YETI's state-of-the-art tech that keeps things cold for a mind-blowing length of time.
Expand / Contract
THIS FOAM STOPS BULLETS COLD AND PULVERIZES THEM TO DUST
The YETI TANK 45 will keep 52 cans or a pony keg icy cold for Final Four viewing.  For more icy firepower, the larger YETI TANK 85 will keep up to 96 cans or 60 longnecks frosty.
You can customize the TANK to support your team and it comes in white, desert tan and ice blue. The YETI Tank 45 is available for $199.99 and the YETI Tank 85 retails for $249.
Frostiness Protection Device
Expand / Contract
Once your beer is out of the Tank what do you do? Pop it in the YETI Colster for some lock and load in the load-and-lock system that keeps your beer cold and in place.
Available for $29.99
Morale Coasters
If you're going to protect your tables from Final Four beverages, then do it with a tactical spin.
Ares Gear is known for its outstanding tactical belts. But the company also makes cool swag, such as slate coasters.
Expand / Contract
(Ares Gear)
The coasters are sold in packs of four and engraved with quotes suitable for game day fierce competition and year-round patriots, such as Thomas Jefferson's "One man with courage is a majority." and JFK's "Do not pray for easy lives, pray to be stronger men."
Available for $19.99.

Drones may known for their prowess in the skies, but thanks to some new developments at the U.S. Navy, they'll soon be turning the open seas into their turf as well. A new video shows off an autonomous watercraft dreamed into reality from the men and women at the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency ( DARPA), all with the hopes of tracking submarines that that haunt the depths of the ocean.
The very first prototype hopes to demonstrate the potential of what will ultimately become a fleet of unmanned ships, known as Anti-Submarine Warfare Continuous Trail Unmanned Vessels (to be pronounced "active" for short). The 132 foot long vessel managed to log a top speed of 27 knots during its test in Portland, Oregon, and it'll be ready for open seas this summer when it launches from the California coast. The drone ship's official christening is fast approaching on April 7, and the Navy seems pretty excited by the prospects of "an unmanned vessel optimized to robustly track quiet diesel electric submarines."
In addition to tracking submarines, the ACTUV could prove useful in a number of additional operations.Everything from serving as a supplier to other ships, countering undersea mines, and aiding in the logistics of complex operations could be carried out with these unmanned vessels, especially given their ability to remain at sea for three months at a time without a human crew.
Related: Drone Wars: DJI just filed a lawsuit against Yuneec for patent infringement
In preliminary tests, the drone has successfully tracked a submarine from 1 kilometer away, which the Pentagon says is a major improvement in the technology. "Picking up the quiet hum of a battery-powered, diesel-electric submarine in busy coastal waters is like trying to identify the sound of a single car engine in the din of a major city," said Rear Admiral Frank Drennan, commander of the Naval Mine and Anti-Submarine Warfare Command.
ACTUV ships are also expected to help lower costs for the U.S. Navy, helping them save human capital and resources with this autonomous technology. It's still unclear as to whether these water drones will be weaponized, but if you happen to see an unmanned vessel floating around the California coast this summer, don't be alarmed. It's just an ACTUV ship, waiting to do its duty.
Boeing's new submarine drone can traverse 7,500 miles in a single charge
Wasp research may lead to smarter, more efficient drones
DARPA's 130-foot submarine-hunting drone will take to the sea in April

Foam body armor? Even armor-piercing bullets cannot get through this foam.
And the foam doesn't just stop bullets. It destroys them…this foam decimates bullets into dust.
North Carolina State University Professor Afsaneh Rabiei led the team that created the amazing foam.
This is not ordinary foam like the kind used for shaving, for example. This is a special type of foam called composite metal foams, or CMF.
'BIONIC' EYE ON THE FUTURE: FROM 'STAR TREK' VISORS TO 'MISSION IMPOSSIBLE' CONTACT LENSES
The military and law enforcement could use this kind of foam for advanced, ultra light body armor to protect personnel.
And this research team has other foams up its sleeve that have the potential to keep military and first responders safe from radiation and extreme heat too.
BULLET V. FOAM
Sound impossible that foam-based armor could stop armor piercing rounds? Testing has proved it is indeed possible.
In tests conducted by the development team, the foam body armor was able to defeat an armor-piercing bullet. And on impact, their foam smashed the bullet into powder.
SHOT SHOW 2017 IN PICTURES
To challenge the foam material with bullets, the team built a shield. The strike face - the side facing the weapon - was made with the new composite metal foam together with boron carbide ceramics. The backplates – the side that would face the user - were made of Kevlar.
In tests, the team shot at the foam body armor with 7.62 x 63 mm M2 armor-piercing round.
How well did it work?
Their foam absorbed the bullet's kinetic energy.
MARINES GET GROUNDBREAKING, UNSTOPPABLE NEW RIFLE MAGAZINE
The foam worked so well that an armor-piercing round could only penetrate less than an inch on the weapon-facing side of the shield.
On the side facing the warfighter's body, the bullet was only able to cause an 8 mm indentation on the back .
Body armor innovation is important because it can save lives.
The National Institute of Justice standard allows up to 44 mm indentation from a bullet on side facing the user– so the foam performs  80 percent better than the maximum standard.
HOW IS IT MADE?
In basic terms, the foam is a composite metal foam. What does that mean?
THE 5 COOLEST MILITARY INNOVATIONS OF 2016
To make it, the team takes molten metal and bubbles gas through it. This process creates a sort of froth. When the froth cools, it becomes a lightweight, ultra strong matrix material.
Processes like 3D printing and milling can also be used to make composite metal foam.
FOAM VS. NUCLEAR RADIATION
The team first produced a foam shield that could block radiation.
This foam is able to stop and block X-rays. In tests, it can even protect against various forms of gamma rays.
HOW SKYDIVING MILITARY SNIPERS HARNESSED TOP OXYGEN TECH ON MOUNT EVEREST
According to NASA, gamma rays are produced by the hottest and most energetic objects in the universe like supernova explosions and areas around black holes. Here on Earth, they can also be produced in nuclear fission.
In tests, the foam could also protect against neutron radiation that can be produced by nuclear fission or fusion.
To develop radiation shielding, the team created a "high-Z steel-steel foam". This one is a combination of stainless steel with a small amount of tungsten shaped into hollow spheres. This is then introduced into the steel matrix and creates the foam.
Current protection options tend to be very cumbersome, awkward and heavy. The foam shielding could provide a lightweight, strong alternative for the military. It could also have potential for transportation and storage of hazardous materials.
DARPA DEVELOPS DIGITAL COPILOT FOR MILITARY AIRCRAFT
Space exploration and transportation of nuclear waste are just two other examples of how this foam could be used.
The Department of Energy Office of Nuclear Energy supported the team's development of foam that is two times better at protecting against fire and heat as regular metal.
For example, their lightweight stainless steel foam was far more effective than stainless steel.
To examine the foam's heat protection, the team tested some of the foam that was 0.75 inches thick against 800 degrees Celsius fire for 30 minutes. And they tested a regular piece of stainless steel the same size and width against the same heat.
F-35A FIGHTER JET IN PICTURES
Which resisted the heat better? The foam. The foam withstood the heat twice as long.
It took four minutes for the extreme heat to reach the other side of the regular stainless steel from the fire. The team's foam withstood the heat for eight minutes before it reached the other end.
Being able to withstand heat longer could provide a number of advantages. For example, it could mean the difference between an accident causing an explosion – or not.
Foam like this could also be leveraged by the military to safely transport and store explosives. It could even be used for the safekeeping and transfer of nuclear and other hazardous materials.
Go inside dangerous missions and hear firsthand from American Special Operations warriors about how they have used advanced body armor in combat on Tactical Talk.

(Smith & Wesson)
Are those lamps on your local streets detecting when guns are fired? American cities are being upgraded to pinpoint shooters and help police fight gun violence.
Like something out of the futuristic policing TV show "APB," new tech can locate the exact position where a gun is fired and report it immediately to law enforcement.
Called ShotSpotter, this is a tool that can be used by officials to respond even faster to the aid of gun violence victims— minutes can be the difference between life and death. And it provides police with far more information in advance.
Before arriving on the scene, the tech tells police the exact location of the shooter or shooters, the type of weapon, and number of shots fired. This sort of data can help law enforcement respond more effectively and reduce the risk to the officers responding.
Militaries use a similar technology to defeat enemy snipers. In war zones, these systems pinpoint the location of a hidden sniper, using the sound of the gunshot.
The ShotSpotter tech uses a similar acoustic approach, but in a system designed to protect civilian neighborhoods. It can also be used to protect locations that can be attractive for terrorists to strike, like power plants and tourist sites such as New York's Times Square.
Expand / Contract
(ShotSpotter)
What is ShotSpotter?
ShotSpotter is a system of sensors that work together to calculate the location of gun crime.
Within the area of coverage, the tech can tell police officers where the shot was fired, how many shots, and the number of weapons involved.
ShotSpotter can even identify the weapon. From the sound of a military sniper's weapon through to handguns, shotguns and rifles, this tech can distinguish and identify all different types of weapon sound signatures.
How does it work?
There are three parts to this tech: detect, locate, and alert. When a gunshot goes off, the ShotSpotter instantly alerts police of the gun crime in progress.
Acoustic sensors are installed at about 30 feet or more above street level in places such as rooftops and utility poles.
For every square mile, there would be about 15 - 20 sensors. This sensor system works together to detect and triangulate weapon activity.
THIS FOAM STOPS BULLETS COLD AND PULVERIZES THEM TO DUST
When there is a very loud boom and bang type noises like gunfire, it triggers the sensors to activate and record the gunfire.
Each sensor then captures the precise time, location, and the audio. An expert at the Incident Review Center receives the data to verify it is gunfire. From the firing of the weapon to relaying the verified data to law enforcement, this process takes less than 45 seconds.
Police officers can immediately receive the information on their smartphones, computers, in their patrol cars or from dispatch.
Before arriving in a potentially dangerous scenario, the officers can review the ShotSpotter maps and see displayed the locations, the number of shots fired and the number of shooters. They can even listen to the gunshot audio.
By pinpointing the location, first responders know where to exactly find victims to render aid as quickly as possible.
Why are cities using it?
Gun crime is underreported in the United States. Some estimates suggest only one in five shootings are called into 911. Since the tech has been introduced, there have been a number of times that the tech detected a gunfire incident before a 911 call was made for help. Just Tuesday, it was reported that ShotSpotter notified the police of a homicide before anyone called 911.
This sort of tech can save lives of victims and potential future victims by accelerating the speed of first responders. For gunshot victims, this could mean the difference between life and death.
And importantly, it improves the safety of police officers by giving them crucial data like number of shooters and types of weapons before arriving on the scene – so they know what they are facing.
FOR THE LATEST TECH FEATURES FOLLOW FOX SCITECH ON FACEBOOK
If the police don't know exactly where to respond, then they can lose time searching for the location and the criminal or criminals, making it harder to capture the bad guys.
In addition to increasing arrests, law enforcement can quickly locate witnesses and gather crucial evidence like shell casings that can be crucial for successful prosecutions.
ShotSpotter is now partnering with Amazon Web Services and GE Current Lighting and expanding their reach.
Smart Cities was a White House initiative established under President Barack Obama to upgrade cities by leveraging state-of-the art technology.
In fact, one of these futuristic "Smart Cities," San Diego, recently announced that the new GE high-tech streetlights will also be equipped with this tech to detect gun crime.
Where is it?
It's not just the "Smart City" of the future that will use the tech. So far there are more than 90 installations across the United States and the world.
Cities across America are already using ShotSpotter from places on the west coast like Oakland, San Diego, and San Francisco, to cities like Wilmington, North Carolina, Trenton, New Jersey and New York City in the east.
FOR THE LATEST SCIENCE FEATURES FOLLOW FOX SCITECH ON FACEBOOK
In the south, places like Jefferson Parish, Louisiana as well as Birmingham and Miami use it. Texas has one of the highest rates of gun ownership, and San Antonio has also been an early adopter of the tech. In the midwest, Chicago, Milwaukee, Omaha, and St. Louis are a few ShotSpotter-equipped cities.
While proponents say that tech like ShotSpotter can reduce gun violence, critics cite concerns like privacy.
The tech is not designed to listen in on phone calls as you walk down the street—instead it detects very loud sounds with signatures like explosions or gunshot when they erupt in the air.

This cell phone will self-destruct. And so will this battery, this computer chip and a whole spectrum of military electronics – on command – just like a real life version of that iconic moment in "Mission Impossible."
In the "Mission Impossible" shows and films, the team uses devices that deliver secret messages and can self-destruct on command. This protects the data from falling into enemy hands and putting the team and mission at risk.
Forget "find my iPhone"… soon, if your phone or device is stolen, you too may able to order it to self-destruct and protect your personal data whether it's family photos or your co-workers' phone numbers.
Work is underway around the world to create technology that can destroy things if they fall into the wrong hands.
INCREDIBLE TECH DETECTS GUNFIRE ACROSS AMERICA
In Saudi Arabia, King Abdullah University of Science and Technology developed a new device that can thwart thieves. The idea is that if your phone is stolen you can trigger your phone to self-destruct in mere seconds.
How does it work?
The technology, made of polymer and silicon, is placed inside the phone.
If your phone is stolen, then you trigger the tech. The self-destruct could be triggered remotely using an app.
The tech then harnesses the power from the phone battery. The power fuels the tech to expand seven times its original size. Ultimately, the tech explodes in less than 10 seconds from the time you trigger it.
Self-destruct for secrecy
With applications in mind for military and intelligence services, the research team ran a series of experiments that revolved around someone trying to remove secret data from its secured location. They developed a number of different ways to trigger self-destruction.
THIS FOAM STOPS BULLETS COLD AND PULVERIZES THEM TO DUST
If the modified device was moved out of a designated space, a GPS sensor triggered the device to explode.
Should someone try to break into a casing that protects the tech, then a pressure sensor would trigger destruction.
If the tech-enhanced device was moved from dark to light – as if someone tried to take something secret out of your safe, drawer, pocket or bag – then it triggered self-destruct.
How soon can you modify your phone to self-destruct?
The team estimated it would cost around $15, but it is still unclear how soon the tech will become available and whether it will be widely available or restricted.
FOR THE LATEST TECH NEWS FOLLOW FOX NEWS TECH ON FACEBOOK
Researchers have already discussed the technology in IEEE Spectrum.
So what is the US military up to on this front?
Lots. The VAPR initiative is one of the most exciting by far. VAPR is a DARPA program and stands for Vanishing Programmable Resources.
The general idea is to be able to make devices self-destruct remotely and vanish like vapor. It has already produced lots of astonishing advances to help keep secret data and advanced tech out of the wrong hands.
Think of it like Snapchat for military electronics. Just like how you can control who sees your data with Snapchat and it disappears, it is the same idea with this concept. You control who uses your tech. If someone gets a hold of it, you can make it self-destruct or even vanish.
'BIONIC' EYE ON THE FUTURE: FROM 'STAR TREK' VISORS TO 'MISSION IMPOSSIBLE' CONTACT LENSES
For the military, this sort of advance could provide lots of advantages.
On a battlefield, it can be difficult - if not impossible - to ensure that all tech is recovered. Sensors, for example, could be widely dispersed and recovery could put service members at risk.
It is important to preserve tech superiority that the U.S. military leverages against adversaries. It is also important to prevent adversaries from capturing American tech, reverse engineering it, and using it against the U.S and its allies.
Melting Military Devices
DARPA and the National Science Foundation have supported research into these advances at University of Illinois, for example.
Teams there have been working on remotely commanding devices to self-destruct using methods like heat and ultraviolet light.
Expand / Contract
(University of Illinois)
Exploding Computer Chips
Another VAPR project DARPA supported is Xerox PARC's computer chip. PARC's advances led to a chip that could be ordered to self-destruct and explode in less than 10 seconds.
TOP NEW GEAR FOR HUNTERS IN 2017
The team there recently revealed a chip with circuitry printed on a Corning Gorilla Glass panel.
Sound, heat, radio waves and even lasers could be used to trigger the chip to instantly shatter into thousands of shards.
Xerox PARC is at the forefront of some truly futuristic advances. This DUST, or Disintegration Upon Stress-release Trigger, program is so good that the self-destruction can take an electronic device and rapidly disintegrate it into such tiny particles they cannot be seen by the naked eye.
Coming to an electronic device near you?
Beyond the military applications, there are a wide range of potential consumer uses.
To have peace of mind their private data won't be exploited, consumers could use the tech to self-destruct their laptops, smart watches, fitness trackers and other wearables in addition to cell phones.
SHOT SHOW 2017 IN PICTURES
When electronics become obsolete or stop working, then they could be commanded to disintegrate and vanish - rather then add to ever-growing landfills.
For enhanced protection of the public from natural disasters, DUST sensors could be widely distributed to help predict hurricanes or give early warnings on earthquakes. When self-destructed, they would decompose in an eco-friendly way.

That ambulance you see racing to an emergency may soon also protect you from a dirty bomb attack.
In the nation's capital, Fire and Emergency Medical Services vehicles responding to emergencies in recent months have also been hunting for hidden dirty-bomb threats.
SIGMA is a DARPA program that has produced cutting-edge detection devices that will make the United States far safer against a wide range of nuclear and radiological threats. Vehicles armed with this new tech are the next step to giving cities across America an advanced defense against this serious threat.
DARPA has proven that SIGMA devices can detect even the teeniest, tiniest radioactive material traces.
HOW TO MAKE YOUR CELL PHONE SELF-DESTRUCT 'MISSION IMPOSSIBLE' STYLE
Authorities can receive instant critical data and track nuclear threats with this new system.
The mobile SIGMA devices, smartphone-sized and larger for vehicles, could be combined with larger detectors installed along major roadways, bridges and other fixed infrastructure. This collaboration of state-of-the art detection tech could provide a far greater advance warning to protect Americans against nuclear and radiological threats.
The "dirty bomb" threat
SIGMA will provide an important advantage. This new tech can help stop attacks involving radiological "dirty bombs" and nuclear threats.
The goal is to immediately detect someone with radioactive material on American soil. Early detection is critical to prevent someone detonating a dirty bomb or nuclear device.
INCREDIBLE TECH DETECTS GUNFIRE ACROSS AMERICA
A "dirty bomb" combines a regular explosive like dynamite, with radioactive material. When the device explodes, it disperses the radiological material.
Terrorists have been interested in using radioactive and nuclear material for attacks for quite some time. For example, a terrorist plot to target U.S. landmarks with WMDs was foiled in 2004.
What is SIGMA?
The SIGMA devices detect gamma and neutron radiation emanating from sources.
The first part is advanced detection through state-of-the-art tech. The second is the program's ability to fuse the data provided by all those sensors and provide minute-to-minute surveillance of nuclear threats.
THIS FOAM STOPS BULLETS COLD AND PULVERIZES THEM TO DUST
SIGMA also notifies the authorities, providing immediate crucial data.
Throughout testing, SIGMA has proven it is so good that it could pinpoint the location, assess the intensity of a source and report the specific type of radiation. The tech can give city, state, and federal officials early warning and critical data to tailor a rapid response.
And very importantly, SIGMA was so good that it was also able to distinguish between "natural" radiation and possible dangerous radiological threats.
The detectors do not emit radiation and only detect it.
'BIONIC' EYE ON THE FUTURE: FROM 'STAR TREK' VISORS TO 'MISSION IMPOSSIBLE' CONTACT LENSES
There are two types of SIGMA radiation detectors. For the vehicles in this recent test, the larger version was used. Some estimates place the large SIGMA detectors as twice as sensitive as previous tech and approximately one-tenth the cost.
The second version is smaller and can fit in a pocket or worn on a police officer's belt. Estimates place it at ten percent of the cost of current sensors and up to 10 times faster in detecting gamma and neutron radiation.
It has been an enormous challenge to develop low-cost and lightweight powerful detectors that are highly accurate and easy to use – but DARPA has managed to crack it.
Defending DC against dirty bombs
In the recent Washington DC tests, DARPA kitted out about 73 devices on Fire and Emergency Medical Services ambulances.
THE 5 COOLEST MILITARY INNOVATIONS OF 2017
This very smart approach leveraged the fact that emergency vehicles already regularly travel throughout cities every single day responding to medical and fire emergencies.  In the DC test, the vehicles travelled throughout the city scanning for threats during more than 100,000 hours. The vehicles clocked more than 150,000 miles.
The result?
While responding to those in need of help, the Fire and EMS teams also automatically detected and mapped thousands of radiation sources. By equipping the ambulances with these advanced radiation detectors, cities can be regularly and thoroughly scanned for radiological threats.
For the first time, a background radiation map throughout the Capital was created.
DARPA DEVELOPS DIGITAL COPILOT FOR MILITARY AIRCRAFT
It is important to build a picture of "natural" background radiation so it can help make identifying a threat even faster. Things like medical facilities that may provide PET scans and X-ray or even granite can yield radiation and be detected.
Last year, SIGMA was also successfully tested with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey using more than 100 SIGMA sensors.
What's next?
The DC deployment of SIGMA will be used to further refine the tech for potential future deployment. While it was used on ambulances in this instance, DARPA is looking at other vehicles and ways to deploy in other cities.
SIGMA could be used to protect cities across the country. The military, both active duty and National Guard, could potentially use it in emergencies.
Next steps for the program include full city and regional testing this year and potentially systems in operation at local, state, and federal levels in 2018.

ALIAS can fly a military helicopter and then move into another aircraft and fly that too— and ALIAS is not human.
Driverless cars may have been making headlines of late, but DARPA's ALIAS program has also been making great strides in the development of "digital pilot" technology.
The brainchild of the legendary institution DARPA (the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency), ALIAS easily drops into an aircraft and becomes an invisible, automated co-pilot for a human pilot.
And ALIAS is so good that it has the potential to eventually fly all sorts of military aircraft on its own— and it could even fly commercial jets like the ones Americans take to visit family or go on vacation.
Two teams are currently joining forces with DARPA to make ALIAS a reality: Aurora Flight Sciences and Lockheed Martin Sikorsky. One company will go on to win the ultimate ALIAS contract.
What is it?
ALIAS stands for Aircrew Labor In-Cockpit Automation System (ALIAS). It is sort of like an automation kit that is a combination of hardware and software. And it makes aircraft very smart, enhanced with a digital co-pilot.
Aurora Flight Sciences has been working on a version with a robotic arm, and the team held a successful test on October 17 with a Cessna.
Related: These hackers could save your life in a disaster
DARPA invited FOX Firepower to watch as Lockheed Martin Sikorsky put their ALIAS through a battery of thorough testing on October 19 in New York. The tech was successful in both a helicopter and fixed wing.
Lockheed's ALIAS kit is about the size of a small briefcase, meaning a pilot can easily plug it into the aircraft. In a way, it amps up its own smarts and by linking the aircraft to a controller on the ground.
Remarkably, the same ALIAS smart tech can fly both rotary-wing and fixed-wing aircraft.
After the mission, the pilot can easily pull the kit from the helo and then take that very same kit over to a fixed wing aircraft.
The ALIAS tech has built upon five decades of plane automation. And it also leverages cutting-edge innovation for drones.
Related: AUSA: New tanks, stealth Chevy trucks, flying radios and more
What sort of tech advances does it take to achieve state of the art digital co-pilots? Tech like a ramped up tablet user interface, "machine vision" that allows ALIAS to read the data displayed in the cockpit and methods to actuate flight controls. Going forward, tech like speech recognition could be incorporated.
How does it work?
From takeoff through to landing, ALIAS can help with an entire mission. If something unexpected happens, like a system failure in flight, then ALIAS could support handling it or even address the problem itself. ALIAS could constantly monitor the health of the aircraft and enhance the maintenance, response and safety of the aircraft.
DARPA Program Director Dr. Daniel Patt explained.
"It has the brains to figure out how to fly the aircraft by itself," he said, gesturing to the tablet in his hands. "This tablet actually talks to that system, talks to the brains of ALIAS…"
How capable is ALIAS?
"The brain has learned and it knows how to fly the aircraft, how to hold the aircraft in a perfectly still hover inside a tiny one foot box, it will beat the performance of a human pilot… If you tell the aircraft to crash into the ground it won't let you do that," he said. "It will keep you safe."
At the Lockheed Martin Sikorsky testing, it was clear that the tech is so smart that someone on the ground can pilot it effectively with a bare minimum— if any— flight training. The interface is a tablet very similar to those folks would use at home. Using a finger, the user can instruct ALIAS to make the helo fly higher, to hover, to fly a complex pattern, or pretty much anything you could think to do.
Related: A new combat vehicle that swims for the Marine Corps
During the testing, I flew the helicopter using a tablet on the ground and effortlessly controlled the altitude, the speed, the direction and flight plan.
Why a digital co-pilot?
Dr. Patt detailed how ALIAS will be groundbreaking.
"In the long term, we envision this technology really changing the role of the human on board – so instead of trying to memorize what every button does and trying to know where to find the right procedure in the manual if something goes wrong, we can have a computer that does that," he said. "And the human can focus on the big picture mission objectives."
Aircraft these days already have a very high level of automation like autopilot, but this is a whole other level.
Even in highly-advanced, highly-automated aircraft, pilots must manage a high volume of emerging data, handle complex tasks and rapidly respond to any emergency that might arise.
As a digital teammate, ALIAS could free up the highly skilled human pilots to focus on tasks that require their special skill sets, talent and experience. Tasks like focusing on an enemy threat.
If an aircraft is enhanced with ALIAS, then it could reduce the number of personnel needed to fly military missions. It is hoped it could also be used to improve handling, reliability as well as safety and mission performance overall.
Lockheed Martin Sikorsky's Director of Autonomy Igor Cherepinsky stressed it is absolutely not about replacing human pilots, but instead about supporting them and giving them a smart teammate.
What's next?
After this flight-testing phase, DARPA will move ALIAS to Phase 3 and that could include testing voice-recognition. This would allow pilots to interact with ALIAS like they would a human copilot in terms of flying the aircraft.
There's potential, for example, for ALIAS to be used to augment the U.S. Army Blackhawk fleet. This tech has progressed so quickly, and is so smart and so promising, that ALIAS cyber co-pilots could be flying the skies in both military and civilian aircraft within the decade.

Photo by Jake Blick, Magpul Industries
It looks like something superheroes would wear in a Marvel movie, and acts like a device that can make the impossible possible at extreme heights.
State-of-the-art breathing tech could be the key to US military personnel delivering maximum performance in extreme elevations—and fighting where others cannot.
Humans are not made for operating at extreme altitude. As the mountain gets higher, oxygen becomes scarcer. Working in mountainous terrain means forces have to contend with this big challenge.
One of the most important tools for success in summiting Everest, for example, is oxygen. The same thing applies to maximum military performance at vey high altitudes.
The TopOutAero system is used widely throughout the Himalayas. It is often credited as the key to successfully scaling a peak, and recognized for dramatically reducing the number of deaths of those attempting to do so.
Defeating hypoxia opens new heights
The effects of less oxygen tend to be felt above 8,000 – that's about 3,000 feet higher than Denver.
Factors like the speed of a climb to high altitude, climb difficulty, and increased physical activity translate into a greater chance altitude sickness will strike.
MILITARY VETERANS SMASH SKYDIVING WORLD RECORDS IN THE HIMALAYAS
In some scenarios lack of oxygen itself can be a killer, but so can the mistakes made due to becoming hypoxic. The impact on the brain can be dramatic and definitely impair performance in insidious ways.
In a military context, hypoxia can lead to potentially dangerous problems like diminished thought and reaction times, as well as reduced physical performance and early fatigue. It can also cause impaired eyesight, reduce night vision and lead to incorrect depth perception – all very important when trying to rapidly locate very small landing zones in dangerous conditions or executing grueling missions on the ground in very high altitude mountainous terrain.
Whether climbing a mountain for fun or for work, these factors caused by hypoxia can mean not just the difference between success and failure on a mission– but also life and death. That's why carrying oxygen is so important.
The military advantage
The Multi-purpose Tactical Oxygen System, or MTOS, solves this problem for both high-altitude parachuting and high-elevation alpine trekking.
For military personnel, MTOS could maximize performance and allow operators to jump out of aircraft and land at extreme altitudes, then move directly on to execute the mission using the same system.
SPECIAL FORCES' PARACHUTES: WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW
Sniper teams could be flown straight up from sea level, insert in the battle space directly, and remain even above 20,000 feet elevations for weeks without any eyesight impairment from hypoxia—provided they were equipped with MTOS.
The MTOS is made by TopOutAero, a company led by Ted Atkins and Dr. Ryan Jackson. Atkins built and designed the system, leveraging his expertise as a former Royal Air Force aero systems engineering officer and drawing upon his extensive mountaineering experience. Ryan brings deep aviation medicine knowledge and world-class skydiving expertise and insight to the team.
How does it work? On-demand breathing
Atkins started work tinkering with a Tornado fighter jet pilot mask, playing with novel ideas that would eventually lead to the best system available.
One of the keys to it is its success is its simplicity, which reduces the risk of problems. There are also no batteries required, so it's lighter and the system is less likely to fail.
If extra breath is needed, there is reservoir capacity to cope with a bulk delivery. The system is "tunable." Since the oxygen is on-demand, when your body needs more, the system adapts and provides it. Every oxygen molecule is harnessed by the lungs so that none of the oxygen carried is wasted.
EXCLUSIVE: INSIDE AN EPIC PARACHUTE JUMPING EXPEDITION IN THE HIMALAYAS
Atkins describes it as it will "fail safe," meaning if a component like the valve or reservoir has a problem, then the system will still deliver as much oxygen as current systems and will only lose a percentage of efficiency.
In the mountaineer's model, you can even visually verify that oxygen is being delivered.
Inadequate, old-fashioned, dangerous systems
Previous systems used to climb Mount Everest and other extremely tall mountains tended to be wasteful and can be dangerously inadequate.
A "full flow" system is wasteful because oxygen flows constantly and leads to approximately two thirds of the gas being wasted.
The other problem is that if oxygen demand spikes, say from a tough climb, then the flow does not increase with the need— instead you're stuck at the set limited oxygen flow rate. You can increase the flow, but then you are wasting even more gas in the breathing out part of the cycle.
Demand systems are more efficient, but they are more complex and can be unreliable and thus dangerous. But TopOut's modern on-demand system is the best of both worlds, as it's both efficient and reliable.
Recently, a skydiving expedition comprised of military veterans tested cutting-edge gear to the max to conduct solo and tandem jump records in the Himalayas. They relied on the TopOutAero MTOS and achieved four world records.
The team also rigorously tested it for military scenarios moving straight from world-record-breaking landings to rapid extreme ascents on foot using the MTOS and validated its enhanced performance. You can hear directly from the expedition team about the record breaking extreme military free falls and the dangerous mission scenarios where they used at MTOS at Tactical Talk available on iTunes.

There are many new small stars that will make big impacts in 2017. From blades with "balls of steel" through to Viking knives, here are eight exciting new items available to hunters this year.
"Ball of Steel" blade
Expand / Contract
For everyday carry and the hunter on the go, Gerber has just launched a knife with Balls of Stainless Steel tech— or BOSS tech. The "balls of steel" help give the knife a smoother deployment with far less friction. The ball bearings are housed in a round cage inside the knife's handle and the knife has a three-inch blade with a glass filled nylon handle.
It is available in a 420HC with a glass bead finish for $99.00 or S30V steel in a stonewashed finish for $119.
Viking Blade: Saga Siglar
Expand / Contract
What hunter would not want a Viking blade? The Saga Siglar knife is named after a Viking ship built by Norwegian explorer Ragnar Thorseth. Made by Helle of Norway, it is crafted as a Viking-age knife that would fit perfectly aboard the ship. It has a 3.54-inch blade made of triple laminated steel and a 4.33-inch curly birch wood handle.
It comes with a leather sheath and will be available for about $119.
6 GREAT CONCEALED CARRY GUNS AT SHOT SHOW 2017
Cape and carve like a Viking: The Arv
Expand / Contract
For modern-day Viking hunters, this knife is designed for ultimate control in tasks that require find dexterity like caping and carving. The distinctive-looking Arv from Helle will be available this year.
This knife has a 3.5-inch drop point blade made from triple laminated steel and a handle made from curly birch wood, antler, and leather and comes in a traditional Nordic sheath in tanned leather.
The Arv will be available for about $169.00
Spot prey first: Zeiss Terra ED Binoculars
For 2017, Zeiss is introducing the Terra ED binoculars in brown, grey, black and gray. These compact, lightweight binoculars are also designed to be robust. To help protect them from the sort of weather that hunters encounter, they are fiberglass reinforced and there is a waterproof casing.
For those looking for a more budget friendly option in binoculars, these are expected to retail starting at $370.
5 OF THE HOTTEST NEW RIFLES AT SHOT SHOW
Ultimate in game tracking and recovery: Leupold Thermal Optic Tracker
Expand / Contract
(Leupold & Stevens)
Designed to help hunters excel, the LTO (Leupold Thermal Optic) Tracker made by Leupold & Stevens is amazing for game recovery and thermal observation. Handheld and easy to slip into a pocket, it weighs less than 10 ounces and is 5.6 inches long.
This tracker can detect heat sources out to 600 yards and has a 21-degree field of view. There's a fixed focus with 6x digital zoom.
Ready to support your hunting in extreme heat or cold, it can withstand 4 degrees below zero through to 140 degrees Fahrenheit.
It will be available for about $874.99.
Lightweight flock of ducks: Mojo Outdoors Flock a Flickers
Expand / Contract
Great for those in pursuit of doves and pigeons, Flock a Flickers by Mojo mimics a flock of ducks.  Each Flicker has a timer and produces flashes of spinning. The net result? To birds they look like ducks.
They can be used on the water or out in a field. They last for more than 30 hours on one set of batteries.
It is expected to be available for $99.00.
Parkas for hunters going Big Game
As far as apparel launching in 2017, Browning's enhanced Hell's Canyon Big Game apparel lineup with advanced fabric and design will be available and is one of the top choices.
The new Hell's Canyon BTU Men's Parka has two layers, is waterproof and and an ideal option for hunters. There are lots of pockets – including two dump pockets with SilentSnaps and two hand warmer pockets.
It will be available in Mossy Pak Break Up Country and Realtere Xtra camo patterns for about $319.00.
Buck Shadow unstoppable boots
Also new for 2017 is the Buck Shadow, a lightweight boot made by Browning. These boots are an excellent choice for for all sorts of hunting from treestand through to backcountry hunt.
The boots are waterproof, thanks to Browning's OutDry tech, and they've incorporated a special design to support and cushion your foot. The boot is built to be tough from the inside, out. There's a special SymmPlate to help keep the boot as steady and stable as possible in rough terrain.
On the outside, there is even more protection with their TecTuff performance leather on the heel and toe.
The Buck Shadow will be available in four camo patterns and three different degrees of insulation. The boots are expected to be on sale for about $179.00.

Chevrolet Colorado ZH2 (General Motors).
The U.S. Army converged on Washington D.C. for the Association of the United States Army (AUSA) Annual Meeting at the Washington Convention Center that kicked off Monday.
More than 25,000 people from around the world have attended the event in recent years.
Every year there is an important series of briefings and meetings and the event is an invaluable opportunity for Army folks to connect and catch up. But there is also a mammoth exhibition floor where companies from all over the world pitch up to showcase their latest and greatest tech for land combat. And it is always a hotly contested terrain where the companies compete for the time and interest of Army leadership and decision-makers.
Alongside the U.S., representatives hailing from the armies of more than 70 countries walked and window-shopped during the three-day event. Everything from tanks, light tactical vehicles and helicopters through to body armor, grenade launchers and new machine guns was on offer.
There were a number of big reveals, including a new tank, a modified Chevy truck designed for special operations and a flying radio.
The Griffin
General Dynamics unveiled its new concept for a new army light tank that weighs in at about 28 tons. The demonstrator dominated in that tank sort of way and was one of the big reveals.
Dubbed the Griffin, the medium-weight tracked vehicle demonstrator combines elements of the M1A1/M1A2 Abrams with the company's Ajax Scout Specialist Vehicle. Elements from the Abrams include the main battle tank turret and 120 mm cannon – although this version of the turret is designed to be lighter. From the Ajax, the Griffin incorporates the AJAX chassis and power pack.
SubHeading Related:
SubHeading A new combat vehicle that swims for the Marine Corps
SubHeading F-35A fighter jet in pictures
SubHeading Armed MUTTs: Self-driving vehicles could boost the military’s arsenal
SubHeading 'Star Trek'-style surveillance drone for the US military
It was shown kitted out with the 120 mm XM360 gun. If the program progresses, other features like explosive reactive armor could be incorporated.
This new light tank has potential to provide a solution for rapid deployment and mobility with significant firepower and protection.
Chevy Electric Trucks for Special Operations?
Also unveiled this week at AUSA, the Chevrolet Colorado ZH2 made by General Motors. The ZH2 is the result of collaboration between the Army's Tank Automotive Research Development and Engineering Center (TARDEC) and General Motors.
The ZH2 is a modified version of the Chevy Colorado. The challenge was to take a civilian truck and make it meet military standards and requirements. Within one year, the team was able to produce a demonstrator.
So how has it been adapted? The ZH2 has been modified for enhanced off-road performance. New features include improved suspension and bigger tires. It can also be used as a power source providing up to 50 kilowatts of power.
Here's the thing – the truck has also been adapted to be electric and powered by a hydrogen fuel cell that offers a quieter ride.
Why make those modifications? The idea is that should blend in and look like just a regular truck while offering capabilities such as quiet approach that U.S. Special Operations could use to their advantage.
As part of this effort, the ZH2 is designed to also run cooler in temperature than typical trucks you'd see driving around town.  Theoretically, this could help defeat detection by thermals in a remote approach on a target, but in an urban setting it could have the opposite effect by flagging the vehicle as running at an irregular temperature.
It's not every day that you see a Chevy truck running on hydrogen so the vehicle was drawing crowds at AUSA.
Flying Radio
Harris Corp makes the lightweight, rugged Rifleman radio for the US Army. The Rifleman is also known as the AN/PRC-154 for unclassified communication, or for secret and below, the AN/PRC-154A. The radio can transmit simultaneous video, voice and data.
They've taken this very popular radio and made it fly by adapting a small quadcopter.
Cue the Harris RF-330E-CM Embedded Modular Radio (EMR is essentially a flying radio system). For the system to work, Harris needed to make its radio capabilities ultra-compact and lightweight while still delivering top performance. The tech delivers a range of waveforms in one small form factor. It can provide both voice and data links. The frequency range is from 225 MHz up to 2.5 GHz. The technology is compatible with currently fielded Department of Defense assets.
Harris developed their flying radio with platoons and teams in mind - the tech weighs about three pounds and is designed to fit easily into a backpack.
Why? This flying radio could deliver secure communication with greater range and flexibility while lightening the load for troops by reducing the burden of radio carrying.

Jump training for Himalayas expedition (Photo by Jake Blick, Magpul Industries).
An elite team has traveled deep into the Everest region of the Himalayas to smash skydiving world records by jumping out of a helicopter. Will they succeed?
Led by former U.S. Navy SEAL Fred Williams, the team is made up of highly accomplished U.S. Marine Corps and Army veterans, together with a handful of experienced civilian parachute jumpers.
To smash skydiving world records, the team headed to Nepal, the landlocked country sandwiched between India and China. While it covers only about 50,000 square miles – close to the size of Iowa - Nepal eclipses most countries in height.
Nepal is home to the Himalayas, the legendary mountain system that stretches for about 1,550 miles and includes some of the highest peaks in the world. More than 100 peaks reach more than 24,000 feet – the most notorious of these is Mount Everest, the world's highest peak at 29,035 feet.
DARPA DEVELOPS DIGITAL COPILOT FOR MILITARY AIRCRAFT
This is where the team is conducting an expedition fraught with danger.
Making the Impossible Possible
The team will attempt a series of parachute jumps, endeavoring, at each stage, to push the limits of the possible. They will then move higher and do the same again – smashing world records along the way. The team is equipped with gear from Complete Parachute Solutions (CPS) and breathing systems specialist TopOut Aero to support their attempts to break solo and tandem jump records.
Expand / Contract
(Photo by Jake Blick, Magpul Industries)
If successful, the team will push the envelope of what is possible with military high-altitude parachuting. Why take on such an extreme series of challenges? "Men that have the courage to push their personal limits through calculated feats truly experience the meaning of life," explained CPS President Fred Williams.
Preparation and Jump Training
So how did this elite team prepare for such an epic expedition?
A NEW COMBAT VEHICLE THAT SWIMS FOR THE MARINE CORPS
Undertaking anything in the Himalayas is not a walk in the park - team members undertook intense physical training in the months leading up to departure.
For the jumping component, there was intensive preparation. The pre-deployment training zeroed in on helicopter exits at low speeds – a key factor in the expedition. In the Himalayas, the team is using an AS 350 B3 Eurocopter Helicopter in a fierce red emblazoned with a dragon.
Training also worked on aspects like sub-terminal parachute openings (when the parachute opens before terminal velocity is reached) and how canopy speed and performance would be increased at high elevations.
For these sorts of extreme jumps, there is a tendency for the canopy to "over-steer," which needs to be countered. The team also worked on the pendulum effect of lowered combat equipment.
AUSA: NEW TANKS, STEALTH CHEVY TRUCKS, FLYING RADIOS AND MORE
Team members also worked to refine a lower, shorter landing pattern to ensure sticking a landing in very tight landing zones. This is a very different scenario to military jump training that is often conducted in desert conditions where the target is typically surrounded by sand and more sand. In the Himalayas, a miss could mean certain death.
Expand / Contract
Caylen Wojcik, director of operations, Magpul CORE, during training for the Himalayas expedition. (Photo by Jake Blick, Magpul Industries)
Ultimately, the team worked towards landing a parachute at high elevations with increased airspeed and other tough factors such as the extreme, unpredictable winds of the Himalayan terrain. In attempt to replicate the mountain conditions, part of the training took place at the highest airport in the United States at Leadville, Colorado.
Most of the team are extremely experienced parachute jumpers. Team leader Williams for example, has conducted more than 15,000 jumps in his career.
One team member with military experience, however, took on the challenge of starting the CPS expedition training as a beginner. Former U.S. Marine Corps sniper and sniper instructor, Caylen Wojcik now works as the director of operations for firearms training specialist Magpul CORE.
ARMED MUTTS: SELF-DRIVING VEHICLES COULD BOOST THE MILITARY'S ARSENAL
CPS is a leader in MFF (Military Free Fall) training and tailors high-level training for military clients to match operational requirements in any environment. But could CPS take a beginner skydiver and train him up to successfully jump in extreme elevations in extreme conditions?
Wojcik trained with CPS in advance, and did some preparation on his own. He arrived at some of the toughest landing zones in the world with a mere 50 jumps under his belt. At 50 jumps, most novices have not even tried other drop zones let alone at one of the toughest locations on the planet.
The Most Dangerous Airport in the World
The Team arrived in Kathmandu and traveled to Lukla – dubbed, with good reason, the most dangerous airport in the world. Lukla is perched precariously at 9,200 feet with a tiny, steep runway in the Himalayas. From this point forward, there would be no wheeled vehicles on the expedition and travel in the mountains is limited to helicopter, animal and foot.
Travelling by foot, the team followed a river and mastered a 1,700 foot steep ascent to reach Namche, at 11,286 feet. After further acclimatization, the team climbed a further 1,100-foot ascent to Syangboche, which is at an elevation of 12,400 feet.
'STAR WARS'-STYLE SPEEDERS COULD CARRY US TROOPS
Parachute operations then began at Syangboche airport - airport being a loose term, given it is a strip of about 100 feet of dirt, grass and rock - a sort of slanted runway on the side of a mountain.  At one end, the drop zone ground rises steeply for about 750 feet and drops off at the other end.
And this small runway is the only area to land. Stakes are extremely high.
The expedition was off to a very strong start with this remarkable achievement. Wojcik jumped alongside highly experienced jumpers on the team with thousands of jumps under their belt – and nailed his 51st jump in such a difficult location and under very tough conditions.
"To come to the Himalayas as a new skydiver is an incredible opportunity," he explained. "With the immensity of the location, any jump there is an overwhelming experience.  I wouldn't have been able to make such an accomplishment without the purpose-built training I received from some of the best in the military skydiving community at CPS."
"Caylen's success speaks to the quality of the expedition team members and validates our training programs," Williams added.
You can learn more about Wojcik's journey and his skydiving training in Magpul's very cool video here.
You can meet the team and immerse yourself in the adventure at Tactical Talk available on iTunes. Join the expedition from kick off in Kathmandu through to the Himalayan mountains, flying around in the helo, hanging out at the base camps and breaking world records with the extreme jumps.

CPS Everest Skydive 2016 Fall Expedition (Complete Parachute Solutions).
What is the secret that elite special forces around the world know about jumping out of aircraft? State-of-the-art canopies - where to find them and how to leverage them to the max.
Jumping with a parachute provides the military with a range of advantages – not least of which is rapid and stealthy insertion of teams.
Highly-trained and experienced special operations jumpers can take average canopies and do amazing things. But equipped with truly next-gen, cutting-edge canopies, they can take things to an entirely new level.
Making ordinary canopies extraordinary
Retired Navy SEAL Fred Williams jumped a lot during his military career. During his service, he began to have some ideas about how the parachutes could be radically improved to enhance the performance of elite forces.
Determined to ensure U.S. forces had the very best gear to support missions and reduce risk to jumpers, when he retired he committed to doing just that.  "Flying parachutes on top of the world requires confidence, having the right equipment allows us to focus on our personal performance," he explained.
Complete Parachute Solutions (CPS), where Williams is President, took those original ideas and then continued to further refine and evolve them. CPS canopies rapidly became a go-to for elite and covert military teams.
EXCLUSIVE: INSIDE AN EPIC PARACHUTE JUMPING EXPEDITION IN THE HIMALAYAS
The Tandem Phoenix and Military Silhouette are two of the most combat proven parachutes since 9/11. For the past 12 years running, the Military Phoenix has earned the best U.S. military school house track record for reliability and safety of all parachutes used at United States Army Special Operations Command (USASOC) validated Military Free Fall courses.
The parachutes were recently used during an epic parachute jumping expedition in the Himalayas.
So how are these canopies different to ones you'll find all over drop zones in America? Many aspects cannot be shared publicly, but here are some key details that can.
Flying solo
The Military Phoenix Series is an advanced medium-high aspect ratio, moderately tapered, nine-cell tactical main canopy extremely popular for solo jumpers in need of a general use ram-air solo parachute. It provides users with an excellent maximum suspended weight capability.
Parachutes with medium aspect ratios have predictable opening capabilities while high aspect ratios offer a flat glide and the most tolerance for timing the landing 'flare' or maneuver.
Expand / Contract
(Complete Parachute Solutions)
What is it made of? CPS manufactures the canopy from an exclusive zero-porosity ripstop nylon material. It is built to provide optimal offset performance.
DARPA DEVELOPS DIGITAL COPILOT FOR MILITARY AIRCRAFT
The MP-360 series is the workhorse of solo operations. For a solo operator who needs to carry full combat equipment and a heavy parachutist drop bag, this model is an ideal solution. Parachutists can use it with loads up to 475 pounds.
It is also a great choice for K9 operations where the team requires a dog or dogs on the mission. An operator can jump the dog in to join the team using this parachute.
The maximum deployment altitude is 25,000 feet and the minimum is 3,000 feet. The rate of descent full flight is between 14 to 18 feet per second.  The forward speed is about 20 to 35 mph.
The MP-360 Series is available in two configurations. The MP-M1 series is designed for drogue-fall and free fall operations, while the MP-M2 series can handle drogue-fall, free fall – as well as double bag static line operations.
The U.S. Marine Corps uses Phoenix exclusively in the Multi Mission Parachute System.  Marine Recon and MARSOC (Marine Corps Forces Special Operations Command) forces train on it while attending the in-service Military Free Fall course at the CPS Tactical Training Facility in Arizona.
Tandem action
U.S. military elite special operations units have been leveraging the Tandem Phoenix series parachutes for the past 15 years.
A NEW COMBAT VEHICLE THAT SWIMS FOR THE MARINE CORPS
The Tandem Phoenix series is also built as a moderately tapered, nine-cell tactical tandem canopy with an advanced medium-high aspect ratio.
The TP-360 is designed for smaller tandem canopy tasks and can handle working loads up to 550 pounds. Solo operators who need to carry heavy rucks or a canine can also use this model.
The TP-360 and TP-400 canopies are constructed entirely of zero-porosity ripstop nylon. But the hybrid constructed TP-460's canopy combines a zero-porosity ripstop nylon on the top surface with nylon ripstop underneath.
On all models, the maximum deployment altitude is 25,000 feet and the minimum is 5,000 feet. The rate of descent full flight is between 14 to 18 feet per second.  The forward speed is about 20 to 35 mph.
All models are designed to provide enhanced landing performance during the flare maneuver. They are also built for optimal offset performance with lighter toggle pressure.
Search and Rescue
When search and rescue is necessary, the Military Silhouette canopy is a go-to for special operations forces around the world. It excels at landing in tight areas using braking approaches.
ARMED MUTTS: SELF-DRIVING VEHICLES COULD BOOST THE MILITARY'S ARSENAL
The Military Silhouette is also a moderately tapered, nine cell tactical main canopy with a medium aspect ratio.
The maximum deployment altitude is 35,000 feet across all models. The minimum altitude deployment varies by model, ranging from 3,000 feet down to 2,000. The full flight descent rate is 12 to 16 feet per second.  And the forward speed with the Military Silhouettes is about 18 to 28 mph.
This series has a hybrid design that gives users some excellent advantages. To name just two of many- it is easily and rapidly packable and provides extremely reliable openings. All the models also provide exceptional, enhanced glide performance.
Operators take full advantage of the excellent, easy maneuverability and stability for search and rescue missions and beyond.

From hunting rifles to prepared-for-anything rifles, SHOT Show is the place where the new guns are revealed.
For a range of budgets and objectives, here are five highlights of the best rifles unveiled for 2017.
Browning BAR Safari Rifle
Considering investing in a rifle with some meaningful military history behind it? Then Browning has a special limited-edition option for you. Unveiled at SHOT, the rifle will be tough to nab because they are only producing a mere one-hundred pieces.
Before World War I, the US Army commissioned John Browning to design a next-level rifle.  He created the Browning Automatic Rifle (BAR) in a remarkable three months – such a brilliant design that it withstood the test of time. The BAR continued to be used by the military through World War II until Vietnam. John Browning's grandson then introduced a sporting twist on this iconic weapon and teamed up with FN to leverage their expertise as well.
JOHN WAYNE GUNS FOR BEGINNERS REVEALED AT SHOT SHOW
In honor of the 100th anniversary, Browning is introducing the BAR Safari 100th Anniversary model with some special features. The stock is high-end Grade V Turkish walnut with oil finish. And military and hunting scenes will be engraved on the steel receiver and highlighted with gold.
It weighs 7 pounds 14 ounces, and is 44 inches long including the 22 inch barrel length. This semi-automatic sporting classic BAR rifle will be available for around $2,699.99.
Remington Model 700 American Wilderness Rifle
Speaking of anniversaries and safaris, another iconic American company, Remington, has reached 200 years and revealed their new big game rifle – the Model American Wilderness Rifle (AWR).
It is designed to be very durable and performs extremely well in tough outdoor conditions while looking good at the same time.
The Model 700 AWR has a stainless steel action and a black Cerakote coated 24-inch free-floated 5R barrel to withstand any abuse your remote adventures might throw at it.
SHOT SHOW 2017: WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW
The rifle also has a very robust Grayboe stock with high fiberglass content to provide further durability against weather you may come up against in the wilderness.
And the trigger? There's an X-Mark Pro that is externally adjustable.
The AWR will be on sale in 2017 for about $1,225.
Expand / Contract
Ruger 10-22 Takedown Lite
Whether you need to react and move quickly or are just keen on a highly capable, accurate rifle that you can store and carry easily, the new 10-22 Takedown Lite is a big reveal at SHOT for 2017.
The 10-22 Takedown Lite is a rapid takedown separating the action from the cold hammer-forged barrel. And where does the Lite come in? This new rifle weighs 4.5 pounds, making it a great option for long days at the range, for women who prefer a lighter weight, and for professionals who want to stay light, fast, and agile.
Just how easy is it to takedown? Thanks to the very smart design it is incredibly easy. You just lock the bolt back, push the recessed lever and twist the subassemblies pulling it apart. That's it. It is literally that fast.
The design incorporates a threaded muzzle with a thread cap that can be easily removed to use muzzle accessories. It also features the Ruger Modular Stock System with a standard pull length and low comb.
There's a detachable 10-round rotary magazine with a cutting-edge rotor that enhances feeding reliability. The 10-22 Takdown Lite comes with the option of a high comb standard pull length module too and will be available for about $659.
Winchester XPC
Another new chassis-based precision rifle for this year is the Winchester XPC. Designed for extreme accuracy, the action is based on their popular XPR, and there's a threaded muzzle with target crown.
The free-floating barrel features a Permacote black finish. The design incorporates a cerakote fully machined alloy frame chassis and the Magpul PRS Gen 3 fully adjustable butt stock. There's an M.O.A. trigger system and two-position thumb safety.
The ten-pounder, bolt-action XPC is very accessory friendly. There's a 20-MOA scope base, full-length top Picatinny rail and an M-LOK accessory rail.
This new rifle is expected to be available for about $1,599.99.
Saint shines at SHOT Show
The Saint made by Springfield Armory is definitely another standout. It was introduced at the very end of last year and made its first appearance at SHOT, drawing a whole lot of buzz.
Fit for fighting and for the range, this new AR-15-style rifle has a mid-length gas system, Bravo Company's slim contour Polymer KeyMod handguard, an enhanced trigger, well-balanced weight, excellent accuracy and much more.
At Range Day, while testing this rifle out, folks raved about Springfield's Accu-Tite Tension system that tightens up the space between the lower and upper receivers. The new Saint retails for about $899.

(Allison Barrie)
Looking for an everyday concealed carry weapon for self-defense?
SHOT Show revealed new options for a range of budgets and needs this year. Here are several highlights in new concealed carry revealed this week.
Expand / Contract
(Allison Barrie)
Futuristic and customized: The Taurus Spectrum .380 ACP Pistol
Utterly futuristic looking, the Taurus Spectrum is drawing nonstop crowds at SHOT Show. The Spectrum gives you the opportunity to choose a wide spectrum of colors to personalize your gun.
How about features that set it apart for concealed-carry? The trigger is wide and flat. And the trigger system can't be cocked, aka "non-energized," so you need to very deliberately press on the wide trigger. It weighs a mere 10 ounces when it is unloaded and it is 5.4 inches long with a 2.8-inch barrel.
It carries 6 rounds and is expected to retail for about $300.
Expand / Contract
(Allison Barrie)
Classic Hollywood chic: The Kimber Micro 9 Bel Air
The Micro 9 by Kimber packs a whole lot of power into a micro package. With maximum performance, craftsmanship and reliability, they are a great choice for concealed carry for anyone. A tried and true favorite, this gun won the NRA Golden Bullseye Award 2017 Shooting Illustrated Pistol of the Year Award.
What's new about it for 2017 is the Bel Air option that gives consumers the option of the eternally classic, "Golden Age" of Hollywood look, as an option. It's 5.6 inches long, takes a six-round mag and with an empty mag weighs 13.4 ounces.
5 OF THE HOTTEST NEW RIFLES AT SHOT SHOW
For those with small hands, they are a particularly great choice.
It will retail for about $800.
Return of the Cobra: The Colt Cobra 38 Special +P
The Colt Cobra in .38 Special +P is getting a lot of buzz at SHOT.
This is a concealed-carry option with a whole lot of history. The first Cobra was first introduced in 1950 and has been one of the tried and true favorites for law enforcement as a backup weapon.
The latest Colt Cobra is pocket-sized and 25 ounces. Double action with six shots, it has Colt's LL2 Linear Leaf Trigger System. The Cobra is 7.2 inches long with a 2-inch barrel.
JOHN WAYNE GUNS FOR BEGINNERS REVEALED AT SHOT SHOW
This new concealed carry option will be available for about $699.
Carry in James Bond style: The Walther Arms Creed
How about a concealed carry from James Bond's gun-maker of choice? Walther Arms is introducing a new concealed carry option: the Creed.
It is a full-size 9mm pistol and has a Picatinny-type rail so you can even add accessories, like a laser or white light. The Creed is not striker-fired. It is hammer fired.
The double-action trigger has a very smooth pull. Weighing in at 27 ounces, the gun has a 4-inch barrel and overall length of 7.3 inches.
With the Creed you get a whole lot of gun in a lower price point range. It ships with two 16-round magazines and will be available for about $399.
New color for this craftsmanship: The FNS-9 Compact in FDE.
FN America featured their new Flat Dark Earth color version of the FNS-9 Compact pistol.
Nothing has changed except the color of the FNS-9 Compact. The striker-fired pistol is chambered in 9mm and weighs 23.4 ounces. The barrel is 3.6 inches and the overall length is 6.7 inches. This concealed carry is available in both standard and manual safety and the design incorporates fixed 3-dot sights. The magazine capacity options are 10,12 or 17 rounds.
SHOT SHOW 2017: WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW
The FNS-9 Compact in FDE will be available at the same price point at about $599.
Enhanced and advanced: Smith & Wesson M2.0
The launch of Smith & Wesson M&P M2.0 is big news at SHOT this year.
The M2.0 features a number of enhancements, like an extended stainless-steel chassis. For a better grip there is different texturing, and to limit muzzle rise there's a better grip-to-bore-axis ratio.
The M2.0 will retail for about $599.
SHOT Show 2017 featured thousands of guns for you to choose. Trying to figure out which gun will be best for you? You can find advice from Rob Furlong, one of the top snipers in history, on how to make the right investments in weapons, optics gear and more on Tactical Talk. And learn about his groundbreaking new weapon, the Kraken, here.

It looks like a Star Trek Bird of Prey, and acts like a drone that terrorists cannot escape: A new military aircraft that's powered by the sun and can conduct missions without landing for 45 days.
Airbus Defence and Space calls the new drone the High Altitude Pseudo Satellite (HAPS), but it's been dubbed the Zephyr. What's a "pseudo satellite"? It has satellite-type capabilities like extreme surveillance— but is on demand with the flexibility and versatility of an unmanned aircraft.
Unlike a satellite, the Zephyr can be landed, modified with alternative tech, and quickly re-launched to provide different capabilities as required.
The Zephyr could fly without landing to provide the military with non-stop high- resolution imagery for a remarkable month and a half, and it could give teams accuracy down to 6-inch resolution.
Flying at about 12.5 miles high at a fixed location, Zephyr can see over 250 miles to the horizon and provide imagery in excess of 386 square miles.
In addition to providing high bandwidth communications, the drone could gather data over these vast areas and equip forces with persistent, real-time, enhanced level of detail actionable data. This sort of capability could prove particularly handy for special operations teams.
Expand / Contract
What does it look like?
Star Trek, a show where starships are regularly featured, just had its 50th anniversary. Folks have been describing the look of this futuristic drone as similar to the Klingon Bird of Prey.
While the Zephyr won't be flying in space, it can get awfully close. The drone can reach heights higher than 70,000 feet. At those heights you can see the curvature of the earth.
How high is that? For starters, if you've taken a commercial aircraft, then you've flown half as high as this drone.
The legendary aircraft, the U2 or Dragon Lady, regularly flies those extreme heights, skimming space and sky.
At these heights, the new drone can very easily evade tough weather conditions, jet stream winds, and air traffic while also reducing risk of detection and maximizing the ability to surveil great swathes of enemy activity on the ground.
The Zephyr S has a 74-foot wingspan, yet is lightweight. Light enough to be launched "by hand."
How does it work?
This aircraft harnesses solar power to fly during the day. Using sunlight, it also recharges its lithium ion batteries. The batteries then power night flying. Since the Zephyr does not rely on fuel, it is not limited by how much fuel it can carry, like other UAVs.
Five warfighters working together can launch the lightweight drone from flat ground. After it has been launched, the same team on the ground can operate it. Warfighters can currently use the Zephyr's control station to fly it over a range of up to 250 miles. But it can also be remotely operated by a team located anywhere in the world.
SubHeading Related:
SubHeading 'Star Wars'-style speeders could carry US troops
SubHeading Innovative Lego-like armor is replacing sandbags
SubHeading 4 ways to protect yourself against Zika
The drone is equipped with an antenna that allows it to communicate, and satellites can help relay commands to the Zephyr from operators at anywhere on the ground.
The Zephyr is designed to be autonomous so it can also fly itself without an operator directing its every move. With its remarkable endurance, it could be launched from Yuma in the United States and then collected weeks later in Afghanistan at the completion of its mission after several weeks.
Warfighters can deploy the Zephyr to provide persistent eyes in the sky to track enemy movements. The drone's camera could provide real-time video and reveal adversary activities and movements.
In addition to surveillance, Zephyrs could be used for things like missile detection, navigation and C4ISTAR [Command Control Communications Computers Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance] relay.
What's next?
There are two military variants underway: Zephyr S and T (twin). The larger size of the Zephyr T vehicle enables it to accommodate payloads heavier payloads with higher power demands.
The Zephyr solar-powered drone family was originally built by Qinetiq and is now in further development with Airbus Defence and Space.
The Zephyr 8 prototype could reach full operational capacity next year. This current Zephyr prototype can carry HD Optical / IR Video, NIIRS 6 imagery, AIS, Narrowband mobile comms such as Tetra and 100 Mbps broadcast.
Future versions could involve a larger platform with more payload capacity. It is expected going forward it could carry sophisticated NIIRS 8 imagery, RADAR, LIDAR, ESM/ELINT electronic surveillance, and broadband communications.
Testing and development will continue.  The Zephyr has already flown safely for over 900 hours. The company states it holds three world records including the endurance record of 14 days. In recent tests, it has even operated at 70,740 ft, circling the Yuma desert.

Remember those speeder bikes in Star Wars that raced through the air? Soldiers and Marines may get to zoom around the battlespace on a type of real-life version in the not-so-distant future.
The new vehicle (which flies using rotors) has been dubbed the Joint Tactical Aerial Resupply Vehicle, or JTARV. Malloy Aeronautics and SURVICE Engineering Company teamed up to further develop Malloy's Hoverbike for the U.S. Army Research Laboratory.
Why the interest in a Hoverbike for American ground forces?
The U.S. military believes it could possibly carry teams rapidly and nimbly throughout the battlespace, and a robotic version could even be used to deliver supplies by itself.
This flying motorcycle could provide three options: it could be flown by a warfighter; it could fly itself around using advanced autonomy; or a mix could be employed where a warfighter flies it and lets the smart vehicle do some of its own flying as well.
What is it?
The Hoverbike started in a garage in Sydney, Australia. New Zealander Chris Malloy began working on it as a hobby, but it rapidly gained traction commercially.
Most of the original Hoverbike frame was handcrafted from Kevlar, carbon fiber and aluminum with a foam core.
The design is similar to a quadcopter. It has four standard helicopter-style shrouded rotors and they overlap with each other and help provide stability.
The full sized Hoverbike will harness a motorcycle engine and controls. It could ultimately be as large as a small car. The current mini-prototype is operated in a way that's similar to a hobbyist quadcopter. The smaller version uses electric motors and a standard RC helicopter controller can be used to direct it.
The Hoverbike has entered its third generation of development. For enhanced reliability and survivability, this generation has multi-engine redundancy and special yaw control, in addition to other advances.
The chassis is adaptable so it can be quickly reconfigured for specific missions.
Speeder bikes with smarts
There is a fully autonomous option – so this is a speeder bike that can fly itself. The high level of autonomy also means that learning to ride it should be relatively easy. It can be adjusted to vary how much input the pilot would like to give; it calibrates to how much autopilot a warfighter wants.
US military Hoverbikes could be programmed with easy waypoint-to-waypoint navigation and fly itself between points and could even eventually avoid obstacles on its own.
Picture Luke Skywalker and Princess Leia battling it out with enemy soldiers in that iconic chase scene in "Return of the Jedi" while on speeder bikes. Luke and Leia had to fly their speeder bikes and navigate throughout a forest while returning fire. But American warfighters could let the Hoverbike do the work for them and instead focus on returning fire.
Hoverbikes in war
It has also been designed to be stealthy in a number of ways.
Since it flies through the air, rather than drives on the ground, it has a very small physical footprint. The operating envelope is below the radar. For a reduced acoustic signature, it's been designed to minimize propeller tip noise from the shrouded fans.
And what's more, it doesn't require runways or traditional landing zones, giving it more flexibility.
The full-sized prototype could potentially travel at speeds of approximately 100 mph. One tank of gas could yield about 45 minutes of transport.
Firefight resupply
Rectangular-shaped, the prototype is expected to be large enough to carry up to 300 pounds of supplies, or a warfighter with body armor and equipment. With that weight, it can currently travel about 10 miles before refueling.
In firefights, ammunition can run low quickly and resupply is important and time-sensitive. Currently, helicopters can be used to drop off these urgent supplies, but in the future a JTARV could zoom out instead.
Ultimately, there are hopes that it could reach and resupply anywhere in the battlespace within 30 minutes.
SubHeading Related:
SubHeading Innovative Lego-like armor is replacing sandbags
SubHeading 4 ways to protect yourself against Zika
SubHeading How F-35A fighter pilots are harnessing high-tech 'see-through' helmets
SubHeading A close-up look at the F-35A, the Air Force's next-gen jet
Cattle, commuter traffic and beyond
How could the Hoverbike be used in the civilian world?
In addition to fun, it could be used for farming or managing cattle, as just two commercial applications. It could even become a vehicle of choice to get to work and avoid that commuter traffic. Once testing is completed, the company plans to submit the prototype for certification with aviation authorities for use in civilian airspace.
The latest full-sized prototype is completing construction and will begin flight tests in a few months.

More than 6.5 million pounds of guns, gear and exhibits for hunting, fishing, shooting and pretty much anything outdoors are showcased at SHOT show this year.
The Shooting, Hunting and Outdoor Trade (SHOT) Show is the place where companies reveal amazing new products that will become available to the public and law enforcement this year.
The show, which is owned and sponsored by the National Shooting Sports Foundation (NSSF), is held at the Sands Expo Center in Las Vegas. For four days between Jan. 17 and Jan. 20, more than 65,000 industry professionals will walk miles and miles reviewing the staggering amount on offer.
SHOT Show is such a mammoth event that it is the fifth-largest trade show in Las Vegas and the largest of its kind in the world.
The Scale Would Blow Your Mind
The sheer monumental scale is staggering.
MARINES GET GROUNDBREAKING, UNSTOPPABLE NEW RIFLE MAGAZINE
SHOT Show is heaving with so many options that merely walking the aisles to window shop would mean you have to walk nearly a half marathon - there are 12.5 miles of products on show.
The event features more than 630,000 square feet jam-packed with options from more than 1,600 companies.
Buyers and creators from all 50 states and more than 100 countries have brought their latest and greatest to display and unveil.
There are thousands and thousands of products for those passionate about the Second Amendment, hunting, shooting and the outdoors. There are also thousands of options for military and law enforcement professionals.
Restricted Access
SHOT Show is not open to the public. Attendance is very restricted. NSSF is vigilant about ensuring only industry professionals in shooting, hunting and outdoor trade can attend. Commercial buyers and sellers of military, law enforcement, and tactical products and services also attend to get business done.
THE 5 COOLEST MILITARY INNOVATIONS OF 2016
NSSF rigorously enforces this policy, requiring government-issued photo identification plus documentation demonstrating direct, professional affiliation to the trade in order to get admitted.
For those permitted entry, they get a first look at the newest products before they are revealed to the public and made available.
But FOX Firepower is inside SHOT all week and has you covered. We will bring you the best of the first reveals before they become available.
First Looks at the New Products for 2017
There is something for everyone, every budget and every terrain at SHOT show in new reveals, popular favorites and-as-yet undiscovered gems.
The newest firearms, ammunition, optics, gun safes, safety locks and cases, shooting range equipment, targets and much, much more – you name it and you'll find a range of choices at SHOT Show.
For the hunter, in addition to firearms there is the latest in apparel, game calls, decoys, tree stands, scents, lures and more on display.
DARPA DEVELOPS DIGITAL COPILOT FOR MILITARY AIRCRAFT
The Law Enforcement section continues to grow -- law enforcement and military professionals can review more than 170,000 square feet of tactical products dedicated to them.
In addition to shopping for advances and advantages, SHOT plays an important role in networking for the community. Representatives from the military, police, FBI, SWAT and other tactical professionals have a chance to build relationships, and meet directly with companies to discuss requirements.
More than Half a Million Rounds Start SHOT with a Bang
The annual SHOT Show Industry Day was held at the Boulder Pistol & Rifle Club Monday where some SHOT attendees had the opportunity to handle, test and learn about new products.
Both current and the new 2017 firearms were put through their paces on the range. Typically, more than half a million rounds tend to be fired are fired during the Industry Day.
AUSA 2016: TANKS, TRUCKS AND MORE TECH
The event gives buyers, as well as media with expertise in firearms, the chance to get their hands on the new weapons and ammunition.
Top Tactical Professionals at ATAC Global Range Day
Out at Nellis Air Force Base, some of the nation's finest tactical professionals also hit the range over at the ATAC Global Range Day. A highly popular event, it is sponsored by ATAC Global Advanced Tactics and Countermeasures, a company that provides maritime and land based security.
Easily one of the most coveted invites of the week, ATAC Global takes security very seriously and restricts attendance extremely carefully to tactical professionals and companies with relevant products. For those lucky enough to attend, they had the chance to test the latest advances for tactical professionals in guns, ammo, optics, gear, vehicles and more that will be unveiled at SHOT Show this week.
This year, the elite tactical professionals also had the opportunity to shoot against Marathon Target's cutting-edge robots. You can go inside this exclusive event and see the action here.

The 'Lil' Duke, named after iconic Western hero John Wayne, is a .177 caliber lever-action BB air rifle aimed at beginners and younger shooters. Fun for kids of all ages, it is also a great way for beginners to learn the basics of shooting on a spring repeater.
Revealed at SHOT Show in Las Vegas for 2017, the new rifle has a stained wood stock and John Wayne's signature is on the action of the gun. An image of Wayne (nicknamed "The Duke") is etched into the butt piece and "'lil' duke" into the foregrip.
Making it user friendly and a great starter piece, there is a large loop cocking mechanism. For beginners, this will make it easy to cock and lock.
You can load about 550 BBs into the 'Lil' Duke repeater. The air rifle will launch BBs at speeds of up to about 350 feet per second.
SHOT SHOW 2017: WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW
Air Venturi distributes top airguns, ammo, and accessories. The company has officially licensed the John Wayne 'Lil' Duke .177 caliber lever-action BB air rifle.
To practice using scopes, young shooters can also use the new Ari Venturi LASSO scope and mount.
The 'Lil' Duke is one of many options in the John Wayne series. Other options include the John Wayne 1911 Metal CO2 BB Pistol, the Duke Shootist CO2 Pellet Revolver and the Duke SAA (Single Action Army) Colt Peacemaker CO2 BB Revolver.
The classic Colt SAA .45 revolver was one of John Wayne's favorite guns. In more than 100 films, the Peacemaker can be seen with the Hollywood legend.
It has a full-metal frame and synthetic grips that have a John Wayne inlay. There's also a John Wayne signature on the back strap.
The single shot BB revolver is CO2-powered with authentic action. It has a 6-round cylinder with a working ejector rod. There are a number of finishes available like nickel and weathered.
The Duke SAA Colt Peacemaker CO2 BB Revolver is available for $349.99. Your beginner can be one of the first to use the 'Lil' Duke. It is available for pre-order now and listed at $49.99.

File photo -Mosquito larvae are seen at a "sex separation area" inside Sun Yat-Sen University-Michigan State University Joint Center of Vector Control for Tropical Disease, the world's largest "mosquito factory" which breeds millions of bacteria-infected mosquitoes in the fight against the spread of viruses such as dengue and Zika, in Guangzhou, China July 28, 2016. (REUTERS/Bobby Yip)
Zika has arrived in the United States, but there are ways to protect yourself against the mosquito-borne virus.
With no vaccine or drugs to treat Zika, concerns about the virus are growing. Florida reported five new non travel-related cases of the virus last week.
How can you fight back against this threat? The military takes steps like Permethrin- treated uniforms, DEET or Picaridin loaded repellent applied to skin, properly worn uniforms to reduce skin exposure and Permethrin treated bed nets. With deep experience working in mosquito-infested areas, it is well worth applying their best practice to home defense.
A layered, combined defense is the best strategy. The military recommends it, as do the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the World Health Organization.
Know what the insiders know and arm yourself with these four things: repellent, invisible shields, clothing and nets. Here are some top picks.
Military Grade Repellent
Insect repellent is an excellent way to combat Zika and other mosquito-transmitted threats. What are some of the best options?
About three decades ago, the military began working closely with 3M to develop a better way to defeat mozzies. Ultrathon Lotion was born -- militaries all around the world use it in jungles and other mosquito dense areas.  The product, which is available for $10.50, is designed so that the DEET evaporates slowly, giving you about 12 hours or protection.
SubHeading Related:
SubHeading How F-35A fighter pilots are harnessing high-tech 'see-through' helmets
SubHeading A close-up look at the F-35A, the Air Force's next-gen jet
SubHeading 'Mayhem' rules as DARPA's battle of the machines hits Las Vegas
Consumer Reports tested a number of repellents and found that the two most effective products against Aedes mosquitoes used 20 percent Picaridin: Sawyer Picaridin and Natrapel 8 Hour.  Both are also popular choices with some special operations forces around the world.  Sawyer is available for $9.99 and Natrapel for $7.18.
Invisible Shield
Don't let mosquitoes drive you indoors. Set up an invisible shield to help you enjoy the final days of summer. Deploy Thermacell tech and a secret weapon based on a colorful flower to create a safe zone.
Thermacell products run via a small butane cartridge that heats up a small mat. The mat is saturated with something called allethrin, which mimics the chrysanthemum flower. As this mat heats up, the allethrin evaporates, creating a safe, odorless, invisible 15-foot x 15-foot zone. It is safe for pets and the entire family.
The products repel mosquitoes that transmit the Zika virus, as well as other threats like West Nile virus, according to the manufacturer.
Priced at $39.99, the Scout Lantern launched a few months ago and offers a defensive perimeter for the likes of backyard barbecues, camping and hunting.
Whether running errands or running those morning miles, you can also bring a Zika shield with you by carrying the $24.99 handheld Repeller.
No Fly Zone Clothes
Expectant mothers … arm yourselves with a different sort of pregnancy clothes.  Get some daisy inspired defense. The CDC recommends you try to limit your time outdoors, but if you do go outdoors then you should keep your skin covered. Aim to wear protective clothes like long-sleeved shirts and long pants.
For extra anti-Zika armor, choose clothing with permethrin. What's permethrin? It is a synthetic version of a chemical produced naturally by daisies.
In 2016 Consumer Reports testing, the top performer was LL Bean's tech. The fabric in their No Fly Zone line is lightweight, offers sun protection at UFP 50+ - and is treated with permethrin.
For women, the No Fly Zone Pants and No Fly Zone Hoodie offer permethrin protection.  The hoodie is available for $79 while the No Fly Zone Pants are $99.
The LL Bean No Fly Zone Trail Shirt, made with the same material, is available for between $49 and $69. The Men's No Fly Zone Zip-Leg Pants are available for $99. The zip off pants are marked left and right to save time.
However, clothing that uses Permethrin doesn't eliminate the need for repellent on your skin, but can certainly enhance defense against Zika.
Squash sneak attacks
Don't let those mosquitoes sneak attack while you sleep. Insecticide-treated nets are more effective than untreated nets. Choose a tightly-woven net with enough fabric to tuck under your mattress. Research has proven that insecticide-treated nets dramatically reduce the risk of mosquito-borne threats to pregnant women and children.
Approved by the WHO, Olyset net technology incorporates permethrin into the actual fibers of the net. It releases it slowly over a number of years giving you long-lasting, enhanced mosquito protection.
The Pramex net, which uses Olyset technology, is available for $39.99.
Don't be that person
If you do travel to a potential Zika area, then remember to use repellent for three weeks after you return. This is very important. Why? The symptoms for Zika aren't necessarily obvious so you could return home, be enjoying a BBQ and a local mosquito could bite you. You in turn could be infecting it with Zika. That mosquito could fly away and then bite someone in your family, your pregnant friend, a neighborhood child– so you could accidentally infect others.

The U.S. Air Force declared its first squadron of fifth-generation fighter jets, the F-35A Lightning II, combat ready earlier in August.
This remarkably advanced and powerful single-seat, single-engine fighter features advanced situational awareness, stealth, speeds of about 1,200 mph and much, much more— and it's designed to be capable of a range of missions with just one aircraft.
The next-gen jet is designed to strike highly-defended targets anywhere on Earth and provide the U.S. military with an aircraft that can fly into enemy space and attack with precision weapons at long ranges— without ever being detected.
The 34th Fighter Squadron of the 388th Fighter Wing, based at Hill Air Force Base, Utah, is the service's first operational F-35A squadron. To reach the Initial Operational Capability milestone, the base needed at least twelve combat-ready jets capable of global deployment for missions involving basic close-air support, air interdiction, and limited suppression and destruction of enemy air defense.
During the final few weeks of testing, I had the chance to visit, spend time with the squadron, and take a close look at the F-35A.
Fighter pilot Captain James Schmidt, of the USAF 388th Fighter Wing, gave me a thorough and detailed overview as we walked around the aircraft.
Stealth and design
What is 5th-generation stealth? The F-35 can go where legacy aircraft cannot.
Lockheed Martin's F-35 Lightning II is a 5th-generation stealth fighter developed to safely penetrate areas without enemy radar seeing it— an enhanced degree of "invisibility" that the 4th-generation cannot achieve.
The F-35's advanced stealth capability, called Very Low Observable (VLO) stealth, is achieved through advances that work to dramatically reduce detection by enemy aircraft and defense systems.
"So what makes the F-35 so unique and so effective is its stealth capabilities," Schmidt said. "And that's just one of the things that makes the F-35 unique."
SubHeading Related:
SubHeading Air Force: F-35A fighter jet is now 'combat ready'
SubHeading A fighting armored vehicle worthy of summer blockbusters
SubHeading Farnborough International Air Show 2016 in pictures
Stealth was built into this aircraft from the very start. Walking around the aircraft, Schmidt broke down some of the stealth features.
"You notice the shape of the aircraft. You notice how the doors have angles," he said. "You'll notice the lining of the wings and how the engine is buried in a curved inlet. All of these things. The special radar absorbing material that's put on the jet— what we would call RAM— all of these things give the jet the ability able to evade modern-day radars."
"When people ask us where do we see this jet? I see this 2050 and beyond," Schmidt added. "It's the jet that we're going to need, the multirole platform to complement the F-22 and B-2 as well as we continue in today's contested environment."
Next-gen situational awareness
There has been a lot of hype surrounding the F-35's state-of-the-art helmet that allows pilots to look down and essentially "see" through the aircraft to the ground below.
Schmidt explained the fundamentals of the Distributed Aperture System (DAS) and how the aircraft uses cameras and interacts with the helmet to achieve this effect.
"There are cameras all over the jet. What this does is it gives me the 360 degree of coverage….where the jet is looking outside for me," he said. "The jet takes all these cameras and it stitches them together and then it superimposes that image on the visor of my helmet. As I turn my head to look around, the cameras are looking at that one section of space but it's stitching them together so it looks like one seamless picture as I look around the jet."
And it is indeed true that the pilots can see through to the ground.
"So I could look down and it would superimpose the picture that camera is taking onto my visor," Schmidt confirmed.
The F-35s for each service have been tailored to meet specific needs. The Air Force, for example, required a gun.
So how can the aircraft carry weapons and stay stealthy?
"That is the unique thing about the gun or even about the weapons… You can see that the weapons bay door are closed," Schmidt said. "That allows us to maintain our stealth ability while carrying weapons into combat. So we can carry missiles, we can carry bombs, and it's all tucked up in there, and when we need to get the weapon away or we need to prosecute a target, the doors will open, weapon away, doors will close again keeping our stealth abilities."
Cooling fire
F-35s can reach speeds of about 1,200 mph—  and that requires a very powerful engine. The heat from such an engine would be a signature adversaries would try to identify.
So how can the F-35s maintain stealth?
"In addition to the Radar Absorbent Material that they have on the F-35 [there is also] a heat reducing coating or signature reducing coating material on the exhaust or the tailpipe," Schmidt explained. "How do you cool down fire? Lockheed Martin found a way to coat this with a special coating that will actually reduce the temperature of the exhaust coming out the back, which helps us fight IR threats or infrared missiles that would launch."
So what is it like to fly this fifth-generation jet? Schmidt, an experienced pilot, said, "Flying and landing this jet is amazing. It's super easy to fly. The engineers and designers of this jet wanted to make sure we could focus on what was really important, which is the tactical aspect."
He explained that the F-35A features advanced autopilot. "So if I want, I can say I want to fly at this altitude, and at this airspeed, or I want you to go from this point to this point and then I can take my hands off the controls and the jet will do exactly what I asked it to do."
The F-35A benefits from tech developed for the Navy requirements.
"So for landing— because of the Navy variant— we have this special function called Approach Power Compensator and what it does is when I'm ready to land, I get lined up on final," Schmidt revealed. "I press a button on the jet and the jet does whatever it needs to trim itself up to a perfect landing attitude so then I just fly the jet down. The jet adds power, it reduces power to change the pitch of the jet. So landing, you flare just a little bit and the jet touches down and it's done."
Schmidt described how these kinds of tech advance on the F-35 makes a difference for pilots.
"I came from another platform that was a little bit older," he said. "For me, it's amazing that they've built an aircraft that allows me to focus on the tactical aspect and not have to worry about getting to the fight or getting home from the fight. It's just a matter of focusing on what's important."

The F-35 Gen III Helmet Mounted Display System, made by Rockwell Collins, lets pilots "see-through" their fifth-generation fighter jets. Like the new F-35A Lightning II, the helmet takes technology to an entirely new level and introduces a host of new capabilities.
Hill Air Force Base in Utah is home to the U.S. Air Force's first operational F-35A squadron. While inside the area where pilots don their state-of-the art gear before getting in the cockpit of an F-35A, Maj. Jayson "Vato" Rickard of the 419th Fighter Wing gave me an inside look at the helmet from a fighter pilot's perspective.
So how exactly can pilots see "through" the F-35?
F-35s leverage DAS –the Distributed Aperture System. In the simplest of terms, it means that aircraft has a number of external cameras and sensors that can feed data seamlessly to the pilot. The helmet plugs into the plane, linking the helmet computer with the aircraft's.  There are optical and magnetic trackers that track 360 degrees wherever the pilot points his or her head. "The cameras cover a 360-degree sphere around the aircraft so I can move my head in any direction and be able to access those sensors. Particularly useful for night-time," Rickard explained.
From a fighter pilot's perspective, what difference does the new helmet make? "It's huge for situational awareness for us … flying at night. Most important for safety," Rickard said. "It gives me a horizon reference - when it is completely dark outside I can use those infrared cameras that tell which end is up, where the sky is, and where the ground is."
Other important features
Integrated night vision is another key advance. "We've got several cameras up here. One of them is a day vision camera and one of them is a night-vision camera, so independent of that with the DAS we talked about, with the 360 degrees and looking through [to demonstrate, he looked through the floor of the aircraft]… there's actually a camera up there that allows me to fly without night vision goggles as I would in my previous platform," he said. "So that's all built in and I can project that over my visor… this little outer visor is a sun shield and in here is where the image projects … it's what we call the display visor."
SubHeading Related:
SubHeading A close-up look at the F-35A, the Air Force's next-gen jet
SubHeading Farnborough International Air Show 2016 in pictures
SubHeading Historic bombers in pictures
SubHeading 11 stunning F-22 fighter jet images
SubHeading 11 amazing A-10 Warthog images
"There's about a 30 to 40 degree image over both eyes - handy at night, but we use it extensively in the daytime for keying our weapons and maintaining situational awareness," he added.
Expand / Contract
(Allison Barrie)
Is it hard to use such an advanced piece of tech? "They made it very well. They made it very intuitive so cavemen fighter pilots such as myself can just plug it in and it just adds another layer of situational awareness ... so very easy to get used to, takes maybe 5 to 10 minutes of looking around before you have it figured out," said Rickard.
One notable absence from the F-35A cockpit is the large piece of glass for the pilot's heads up display. But it's not missing –the heads up is integrated into the Gen III helmet. "The heads up display is actually displayed right there in my visor, so it's just completely seamless as I look at where a heads up display would be, there's a very perfect, very stable heads up display," said Rickard. "So that's a new fifth-generation improvement - we don't' actually have a heads up display as a separate piece of glass."
"Tactically, it's very useful as well because I can look out the window and find a target on the ground, I can designate and employ weapons targets on the ground or up in the air" he added. "What it really brings is my ability to look around 360 degrees and target bad guys."
The Major said that the system encourages him to look around. "As fancy as our fifth-gen fighter is with all our sensors there's nothing that substitutes for looking out the window and picking out a bad guy and this display actually encourages me to do that instead of just staring inside," he said.
Bespoke helmets
The bespoke helmet weighs about four pounds and has a great center of gravity. "This helmet is specifically built for me," said Rickard. "In fact, I sat in a scanner and they took lasers to scan my head to fit this thing so it fits me extremely well … as bulky as it looks it is actually very comfortable."
"Has to be custom built," he added. "Very critical that the helmet fits perfectly because any movement laterally, up or down, affects my ability to use the helmet sensor….[without this precise fit] the symbology wouldn't line up, I'd have a difficult time targeting stuff on the ground, stuff and in the air, so it's very critical that it's fit specifically to me."
Post-mission analysis
The Air Force will use data from the Gen III  helmets for reconstructing missions. 'The reason we are the best air force in the world is because we spend hours debriefing everything," he said. "In an hour and half sortie we might spend three or four hours debriefing … so that actually records my helmet image and allows us to reconstruct a mission … figure out what we did right what we did wrong and develop lessons learned."
From an F-35 fighter pilot's perspective
Rickard says that F-35A will prove a critical weapon in the Air Force's arsenal. "It's absolutely where we need to go for taking the fight to the enemy, particularly in tomorrow's wars the enemy continues to get more and more advanced, the 5th generation aspects, the stealth, the sensor fusion [tech] … is going to allow us to operate in a very contested environment, to where we will have a difficult time getting there with some of the legacy platforms like the F-16."

La Moneda Reserva Malbec, a Chilean Malbec available exclusively at Walmart subsidiary Asda, won the top prize for the best red single-varietal at the Decanter World Wine Awards.
Prestigious wine auctions are currently dealing with fraud and accusations of tampering of wine supposedly worth thousands of dollars. But what if one of the world's greatest wines was stuck on a shelf somewhere between baby wipes and off-brand cereals and only cost $6?
A Chilean wine sold exclusively at Asda — a British supermarket chain owned by Walmart — has won a platinum "Best in Show" award at the Decanter Magazine World Wine Awards.
The La Moneda Reserva Malbec, a dry red wine made from a grape more closely associated with Argentina which costs the equivalent of about $8-- and is currently discounted one store shelves for about $6-- won the prize for the best red single-varietal under 15 pounds (about $21), reports the U.K.'s Independent.
"At just 5.75 pounds, the exclusive La Moneda Reserva Malbec is the perfect example of how we're able to offer shoppers exceptional quality at low prices," Ed Betts, wine buying manager at Asda, told The Independent. "The La Moneda Reserva Malbec is also currently on rollback at 4.37 pounds and as the perfect match to barbecued meats, we're expecting high demand in the coming weeks."

Could this bazooka-style device become a crucial weapon in law enforcement's battle with drones?
The brainchild of U.K.-based OpenWorks Engineering, SkyWall 100 uses a compressed air launcher to fire smart projectiles at targeted drones.
Related: White House gets drone defense wake-up call
The system, which has a range of 328 feet, uses a high-tech scope to lock on to Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs). An onboard computer then tracks the target's flight path and calculates the trajectory required for the projectile to intercept either a hovering or flying drone.
The canister-style projectile opens up when it reaches the drone and uses a net to capture the flying device. The projectile then deploys a parachute to bring the captured drone and the canister components safely back to the ground.
Related: Watch a police eagle take down a drone
OpenWorks Engineering believes that physically capturing a drone can be extremely useful for law enforcement. "Once captured it can be impounded, forensically investigated or simply handed back with some words of education where appropriate," it explained, in a statement, adding that the risk of damaging the drone is also reduced.
Expand / Contract
(SkyWall 100 in action (OpenWorks Engineering) )
SkyWall 100 will be exhibited at a U.K. government Security and Policing event on March 8. OpenWorks Engineering says that it is working with a number of governments and private organizations around the world and expects to see the first SkyWall 100 systems in use before the end of 2016.
Related: Drone sparks extraordinary brawl at international soccer game
A spokesman for OpenWorks Engineering told FoxNews.com that the system will be demonstrated in Canada in the coming months.
Drones, thanks to their small size and ability to hover low over the ground, can pose a huge security headache, as evidenced last year when a quadcopter drone crashed onto the White House grounds. In 2014 an international soccer game between Serbia and Albania was abandoned after a drone carrying a political banner caused a brawl between players from the two teams.
Related: This anti-UAV octocopter uses a ballistic net cannon to disable smaller drones
Technologies touted to combat UAVs include a new breed of 'interceptor' drones. Michigan Tech University, for example, has developed an anti-UAV octocopter that uses a net to disable smaller drones.
Police forces are exploring multiple methods to tackle drones. The Dutch National Police, for example, have trained an eagle to take down UAVs.
Related: Can the US military build Star Wars-style laser cannons for its troops?
The U.S. military is also ramping up its anti-drone efforts. In 2014, for example, the Office of Naval Research announced plans to build a laser weapon to shoot down drones.
Last year Boeing demonstrated a laser cannon that could be used to destroy drones.
Follow James Rogers on Twitter @jamesjrogers

What if machines could outsmart would-be attackers to protect national security?
A system called "Mayhem" has clinched the $2 million top prize in DARPA's Cyber Grand Challenge in a competition to use software that automatically defends networks against attacks.
In the Cyber Grand Challenge, DARPA challenged the world to create software that can defend networks against attacks without a human typing at a keyboard. This software is designed to identify threats and react to, defend, and seal off vulnerabilities from future attacks.
Last week, the Paris Las Vegas Conference Center became the battleground for the world's first all-machine hacking tournament, the culmination of three years of development and qualifiers. The cyber challenge took place on the eve of the famous DEF CON tournament, where top code slingers from around the world converge annually.
The winning system, "Mayhem," was created by a team called ForAllSecure, and scored $2 million in prize money. Xandra (made by TECHx) and Mechanical Phish (created by Shellphish) came in second and third and won their human creators $1 million and $750,000 respectively.
The results of the competition were clear. Computer systems – all by themselves thanks to the extraordinary human talent that created them– have the potential to become a powerful force to defend the United States against cyber attacks.
Seven computers face off
Seven high-performance computers played an all-machine Capture the Flag contest for the nearly $4 million in prizes. The competing teams were comprised of white-hat hackers, academics, and private-sector cyber systems experts developed the computers.
Set against Vegas-style glamour, huge machines dominated the stage and commanded the action. The all-day intense competition drew thousands of spectators, and commentators provided analysis as the battle unfolded. The systems for this battle required more power than the entire hotel itself takes to run.
It also required engineering feats to pull of the event itself, as the machines ran so hot that DARPA was running thousands of gallons of cooled water to keep them fighting fit.
The machines did things like probe the security of opponent software, reverse engineer unknown binary software, defend and generate patches – all by themselves without humans directing their responses in real time.
What's the threat?
From allegations that Russian hackers are influencing a presidential election by hacking the Democratic National Committee to security concerns over the vulnerability of Hillary Clinton's personal server, the threat of hacking has been in the news a lot lately.
Adversaries come in all shapes and sizes. Whether it is nation-state actors with advanced abilities and resources, or individuals with rudimentary capability, tens of thousands attacks are launched every single day against just the Department of Defense systems alone, for example.
SubHeading Related:
SubHeading A fighting armored vehicle worthy of summer blockbusters
SubHeading Farnborough International Air Show 2016 in pictures
SubHeading Hellhound ATV combines tank tech and laser weaponry
Attacks are not limited to government systems and military platforms. Attacks are also launched against U.S. companies and even home computers and appliances – anything connected to the internet can make Americans vulnerable to all sorts of damage and loss.
Bugs can go undetected for years and do vast damage in that time. One example is Heartbleed. It rendered an estimated half million of the internet's secure servers vulnerable to theft and beyond for about two and half years before it was caught.
The machine advantage?
Currently, the world relies on talented cyber experts to hunt down and capture bugs. Hunting and defeating bugs, hacks and other infections could be characterized as an art that requires intellect, expertise, imagination, extraordinary problem solving, determination, and out-of-the-box thinking— and begs the question whether a machine could ever do it.
Defending against threats and scouring millions of code lines to identify and fix vulnerabilities takes massive amounts of man hours and there are a limited number of humans with the skills to do this. Sometimes it can be done very quickly, but more often it can take a year from detection to solution.
And the time to discovery and defeat is something that adversaries can exploit.
By automating the cyber defense process with machines that can discover, confirm and fix software flaws in real-time, would-be hackers would lose a lot of the advantages they currently exploit.
So the seven competing teams had to successfully tackle the monumental task of creating and training machines to do just that. If machines could accelerate the speed of effective response, then they could lead to a powerful force against cyber attacks.
As Program Director Mike Walker noted, "Challenges work not because of the many who can imagine, but because of the few who dare."
DARPA challenges are renowned for sparking leap aheads in innovation, and the Cyber Grand Challenge seems to have done just that.
Walker explained, "For two decades the hacker community has been perfecting a skills contest that lets their best compete head to head: Capture the Flag. Yesterday, we let machines play this contest in a league of their own. We don't know if this new generation of automated security machines will ever stand up to the abilities of the best hackers of the world, but a spark was lit and the road from here will be exciting to watch."

A new futuristic vehicle concept has something to appeal to all sorts of heroes in this summer's blockbusters, whether it is Jason Bourne, the Suicide Squad or Batman.
Dubbed the GXV-T for now-- which stands for Ground X-Vehicle Technology-- this fighting vehicle will be full of groundbreaking DARPA tech for the US military, tech that will make it more agile, fast, safe and affordable than current options.
And this new vehicle worthy of Jason Bourne's most ambitious missions could be in the hands of the US Army and Marine Corps someday soon.
Aside from producing a very cool ride— why it is important?
Weapons continue to evolve and become more and more effective at piercing through the armor that protects military ground vehicles.
The current solution tends to be to add more armor. This does provide more protection – but also tends to translate into more weight and less speed, agility and maneuverability for warfighters.
ATV that flies to join the fight
DARPA has created a video that showcase some of the features the GXV-T could bring to the fight. The vehicles are seen flying through the air, having hitched a ride with a helicopter. Designed to be lightweight and readily transportable, the vehicles are then dropped and inserted into the battlespace.
Once on the ground, the GXV-T will dominate off road. This puppy won't just be able to go off-road— it will be able to effortlessly handle 95% of the world's terrain.
DARPA has challenged companies to devise advanced suspension and novel track and wheel configurations to make this possible.
It will also bring extreme speed to the fight. Breakthroughs are expected to ensure that this speed is truly extreme both on and off the road – and better than what is possible with current vehicles.
Armor worthy of the batmobile
More armor is old school. DARPA has challenged companies to find a solution that does not involve additional armor, and thus more weight. Instead companies must innovate and figure out how to completely rethink conventional approaches to armoring.
One solution could be a sort of shape-shifting armor that automatically repositions itself to fortify against, and defeat, an incoming threat.
"Crew augmentation" for the Suicide Squad
Let the Suicide Squad focus on misbehaving while the vehicle takes care of the rest. When their eyes are not on the road, this GXV-T will automatically avoid obstacles.
DARPA aims to provide the US military with lots of breakthroughs with advanced tech on the "crew augmentation" front.
One idea is to take modern commercial airplane cockpits and give the best of their self-automation style capabilities to a ground vehicle. So while a squad focuses on the mission or returning fire against a threat, the vehicle could handle the driving for them.
It will also provide futuristic data gathering and display everything they need to know about enemies, automatically avoiding detection by them while also finding and providing alternative routes to avoid engaging.
Stealth for Bourne
The character Jason Bourne is frequently flexing his skills to avoid detection and stay stealthy.
With the proliferation of advanced tech around the world, staying stealthy is becoming  increasingly difficult. But DARPA aims to ensure that teams driving the GXV-T can evade detection with state of the art "signature management" tech. Signature management tech is basically a fancy way of saying don't get caught, and see threats and targets without being seen yourself.
This vehicle will stay stealthy by reducing signatures that would traditionally be used to detect it, and reveal those attempting to be stealthy, including spotting them with infrared, sound, sight, and electromagnetics.
SubHeading Related:
SubHeading Farnborough International Air Show 2016 in pictures
SubHeading 'Pike' is a handheld, powerful, and precision-guided weapon
SubHeading Be prepared for anything with these 5 survival tools
But the vehicle won't just be stealthy, it will be smart stealthy. It will be able to spot enemy forces and threats before it can be seen itself – and notify the human team onboard.
In the video, for example, DARPA shows the vehicle alerting the team that it has made visual contact with opposing forces with futuristic displays that provide data and instructions to detour to a secondary valley route, successfully avoided engagement with the enemy.
So the vehicle itself will be able to identify threats and immediately "think" of ways to avoid detection. It could then advise the team accordingly. And it may even be able to just avoid detection automatically, like on an autopilot.
To have these stealthy smarts, advances in tech will need to be made like high-resolution sensors that can help build 360-degree high-resolution images of the world outside the vehicle and the battlespace.
Eight companies, seven hailing from around the United States and one UK-based, are in contention to be selected to develop this futuristic ride. The teams that have been chosen are: Carnegie Mellon University, Honeywell International Inc., Leidos, Pratt & Miller, Raytheon BBN, Southwest Research Institute, SRI International and QinetiQ Inc. DARPA has awarded a contract to each.

If an ATV and a tank had a baby, it may very well look, and drive, like the Hellhound. This new vehicle can drive fast and furious into enemy battlespace on missions, all while protected with smart armor— and equipped with a laser.
Hellhound aims to bring science fiction weapons directly into future battlefields.
Made by Northrop Grumman, the six-and-a-half ton Hellhound can carry a driver, five passengers— and the aforementioned laser weapon.
While civilian vehicles come with options like a custom paint job or special upholstery, Hellhound has been designed as laser-optional, as military users can opt for an integrated 10-kilowatt solid-state fiber laser.
This new vehicle is competing to become the U.S. Army's new light reconnaissance vehicle.
Laser weapons
Hellhound packs an immense amount of power into a compact size. And it needs to do so to power that laser.
A laser this powerful could theoretically defeat enemy UAVs, vehicles, aircraft, rockets, artillery, mortars, and more. Unlike traditional vehicle weapons systems, a team in the laser-equipped Hellhound would never run out of "ammo," as long as there is power.
SubHeading Related:
SubHeading 'Pike' is a handheld, powerful, and precision-guided weapon
SubHeading Be prepared for anything with these 5 survival tools
SubHeading New tech makes tank armor 'see-through'
This next-gen vehicle generates an astonishing amount of power to save the day in war zones. For example, in humanitarian disasters, if there is a power blackout, the Hellhound can singlehandedly power an entire field hospital so that it can keep on running.  Or, if an enemy attacks the power supply to a command center, the Hellhound can provide the power to keep it going.
The Hellhound can also be ramped up with an EOS Technologies R-400 Remote Weapon Station, an ATK M230LF 30mm cannon, and a swing-arm weapon mount.
How's the ride?
The Hellhound is transportable in the Boeing CH-47 Chinook helicopter to unload and then drive straight into the war zone. It is designed to perform in the most rugged of conditions consistent with US Army reconnaissance missions.
With 4-wheel drive, Hellhound harnesses the 250HP Cummins engine and leverages the six speed Allison transmission. To make that ultra rough terrain seem as easy as a well-paved city street, the vehicle utilizes Fox Defense advanced shock absorbers.
Often reconnaissance work can involve rugged terrain and a brush with enemy bullets – both of which are tough on tires. But Hellhound includes a number of smart ways to tackle threats to tires, with tech like the Meritor Central Tire Inflation System that keeps tires at the right pressure and reduces wear and tear. Correct pressure can translate into better fuel economy, and longer mission endurance, without refueling.
Punctured tires? Not a problem. Hellhound will keep on going. Flat wheel tech allows the vehicle to drive out of harm's way in spite of a flat.
The laser race
The race to field laser weapons continues to intensify with all the US military branches and many top companies advancing and competing in this space. Making lasers actually work on vehicles like this represents a crucial step in taking laser weapons from science fiction to reality on the battlefield.
Ultimately, lasers could become an optional upgrade for not just military vehicles, but aircraft and ships as well.

The Compact Laser Weapon System's beam director (Boeing).
It seems everyone is getting inspired by the latest "Star Wars" movie and that includes the military.
American companies are developing laser systems for the aircraft, drones, vehicles and even boats for U.S. troops. And while they may not match the cool beams of light seen from those "Star Wars" laser cannons, they can do plenty of damage.
Here is a look at a few of the systems under development:
The Drone Slaying Laser
Boeing is developing a laser cannon designed to destroy drones. Called the Compact Laser Weapon System, it is a lighter, smaller, easily transportable version of Boeing's powerful High Energy Laser Mobile Demonstrator.
Related: Are 'Star Wars'-style fighter jets coming to the skies?
In August, Boeing demonstrated what the tech could do. With precision, this laser burns a hole in the drone, forcing it to crash.
Aircraft Lasers
Lockheed Martin has been testing a laser turret for fighter jets that fly near the speed of sound. With the 360-degree turret mounted on aircraft, the laser can fire in any direction.
So far, the laser has been tested on about 60 flights over the past two years. Lockheed Martin has been developing the aircraft laser for DARPA and the Air Force Research Laboratory.
The challenge is developing a system that can crack what is called counteracting atmospheric turbulence.
Related: 'Wild ride for 6 seconds': Inside a Navy SEAL's world record flight
Turbulence can scatter the light particles, making the laser ineffective. To minimize this turbulence and deliver an effective beam, the design harnesses state-of-the-art aerodynamic and flow-control technology. An optical compensation system with mirrors helps the beam penetrate the atmosphere and get on target.
Hellhound Vehicle with Mounted Laser
A new military vehicle equipped with a laser weapon was revealed by Northrop Grumman this October.
Dubbed the Hellhound, the reconnaissance ATV carries six warfighters – plus a laser weapon.
It weighs in at about six-and-half tons and will be able to produce 100 kVA of power that can be supplied to radios and other gear. It is also enough power to run installations like a field hospital or command center.
The 10-kilowatt solid-state fiber laser is optional.
ADAM Lasers Blasting Boats
ADAM, or is Area Defense Anti-Munitions, is a laser weapon system designed to take out threats at sea. This is a 30-kilowatt, single-mode fiber laser weapon system.
Related: F-35 fighter pilots are gearing up for the new planes virtually
Made by Lockheed Martin, ADAM took out two boats at a range of about a mile way in a May field test. It can track and blast targets up to about three miles away and was able to burn through rubber hulls of the military grade boats in 30 seconds.
ADAM also previously proved successful at taking out targets in flight as well. Its laser beam blasted targets like drones and rockets.

Mo Rastgaar's drone catcher speeds toward its target drone (Michigan Tech University).
What to do with a misbehaving drone? Catch it with a net. Students at Michigan Tech University developed a drone that's able to shoot netting up to 40 feet to snag smaller drones and deliver them to waiting humans on the ground. This option might be more preferable if those doing the catching wish to confiscate the offending drone in one piece.
Michigan Tech's octocopter certainly isn't the first to employ nets in order to catch unmanned vehicles. Tokyo Police have their own to enforce no-fly zones around the city, and similar drones were built by the South Korean military to fend off drones sent by North Korea. In those cases, the net-wielding drones seem more intent on seek-and-destroy rather than capture-and-deliver.
Developers say the drone can either be flown autonomously or by up to two individuals, and the net is cast quick enough so that even the fastest and most nimble drones can't outrun it. Once the smaller drone is ensnared, gravity takes over and the net swings below the capturing one, allowing for retrieval.
Related: Watch Japan's bizarre net-wielding police drone in action
Michigan Tech associate professor Mo Rastgaar and a team of three students developed the drone, and intend to file patents on their work. Rastgaar sees it as valuable to law enforcement, who may need to take more extreme measures to take down drones given that it now must be registered in order to fly. If criminal charges are to follow for flying an unlicensed drone, it's probably best that it's undamaged for proof.
"What makes this unique is that the net is attached to our catcher, so you can retrieve the rogue drone or drop it in a designated, secure area," he says. "It's like robotic falconry."
No word on when Rastgaar's capture drone will be available or its cost just yet, although it appears the capture drones are not intended for public use. Besides law enforcement, the capture drone is expected to find uses in anti-spying, anti-terrorism, and anti-smuggling operations.

A skirmish between Serbian and Albanian players breaks out on the pitch during the Euro 2016 Group I qualifying match between Serbia and Albania in Belgrade, Serbia, Tuesday, Oct. 14, 2014. The European Championship qualifier between Serbia and Albania was suspended on Tuesday after pitch skirmishes involving players and fans over an Albanian flag that was flown above the stadium by a drone. (AP Photo/Marko Drobnjakovic)
(AP Photo/Marko Drobnjakovic)
An international soccer game between Serbia and Albania was abandoned on Tuesday after a drone carrying a political banner caused a brawl between players from the two teams.
The European Championship qualifying match in the Serbian capital Belgrade was interrupted during the first half when a banner bearing pro-Albanian symbols was flown over the field by a drone, Sky Sports reports. The game, Albania's first in Serbia for 47 years, was played amid ongoing tensions between the two countries over Kosovo, which declared independence from Serbia in 2008. Albanian fans were banned from the game.
The banner reportedly displayed an Albanian flag and a map of so-called 'Greater Albania' comprising Albania and parts of Kosovo, Serbia, Montengro, Macedonia, and northern Greece. Images of two Albanian nationalist figures were also displayed on the banner.
The extraordinary scenes unfolded after Serbian player Stefan Mitrovic grabbed the banner, sparking a scuffle involving a number of players. Riot police became involved when around a dozen fans invaded the pitch and attempted to attack the Albanian players. The melee prompted English referee Martin Atkinson to take both teams off the field. After a 30-minute delay, the game, which was tied at 0-0, was abandoned.
In a bizarre twist, Belgrade media and Serbian officials accused Olsi Rama, brother of Albanian Prime Minister Edi Rama, of operating the drone from a VIP box at the Partizan stadium. The prime minister's brother vehemently denied the claims in an interview with the Associated Press, describing the allegations as "absurd."
"They want to justify the situation that went beyond their control," he said. "They seemed totally unprepared for an abnormal situation."
Rama also said that he was not detained by Serbian police, as Belgrade media reported, but said that his U.S. passport had been checked twice at the stadium.
Harry Been, a representative from European soccer's governing body UEFA, described the night's events as "a regretful situation" during a post-game press conference.
"The circumstances were such that we couldn't restart the match," he said noting that UEFA officials at the game will write a full report for the governing body. "UEFA will decide on what will happen further," he added.
Follow James Rogers on Twitter @jamesjrogers
The Associated Press contributed to this report.

From left, the Dime, the Cortex Compact Flashlight, and the Impromptu Tactical Pen.
So what do folks in the business of survival tools carry on a daily basis? US Army veteran, and now Gerber Gear Marketing Director, Andrew Gritzbaugh, visited FOX Firepower to share what he personally brings with him everywhere he goes.
Here are five things that will integrate into regular business attire seamlessly – and will give you military-grade survival tools so that you can be equipped if a crisis hits.
Tactical flashlight: the Cortex Compact
Gritzbaugh's first piece of advice is a "small, tactical light with multiple battery options – you never know when you'll end up in a dark street or power outage."
During his visit in the studio, Gritzbaugh pulled the Cortex Compact he carries daily out of his pocket.
Tactical flashlights can provide powerful and critical light during the darkness that plagues some emergencies— but the light can also act as a defensive tool. The Cortex, for example, provides 125 lumens of output when charged with the CR123 battery. That kind of light is enough so if you are under attack you can momentarily blind an aggressor's night-adapted vision.
The Cortex Compact was designed for tactical professionals like police officers who need an everyday carry light. It is coated in black for low visual signature – which is tactical talk for keeping its big-time capability discreet.
Available for $94.00.
Tactical pen: the Impromptu
Pens are something people carry with them everyday anyway. But this is a pen that could save your life.
Stabby pens are a must-have with tactical professionals and should be a must-have for folks who want to survive threats.
Gritzbaugh pulled the Impromptu Pen out of his suit jacket pocket.  It looks like a cool pen, writes like a pen— but this pen is also a glass breaker and a way to defend yourself against an attacker.
No matter where you are, if you have a tactical pen with you and are under threat, you always have a powerful way to defend yourself.
Available for $72.00.
Multi-tool: the Dime
The military takes advantages of multi-tools all the time. Rather than carry a whole bunch of unwieldy tool options, service members like that a multi-tool puts all those options in one lightweight, organized device.
Gritzbaugh pulled out of his pocket the Gerber Dime that he carries everywhere. As he explained, it is "a travel friendly multi-tool for every little problem you encounter along the way."
It features ten tools in a tiny size that slips ultra easily into a pocket. In terms of survival, you never know exactly which tool you would wish you had to hand. And there are no do-overs in a crisis.
Available for $25.00.
Watch with a compass: Suunto Vector
Most folks rely on a phone equipped with GPS and a mapping app to navigate around these days.
Why do you need a watch with a compass? Because phones die and signals get lost.  Batteries can drain very quickly in a crisis. A watch with a compass is always a good idea when you are trying to get away from bad stuff and find your way home.
Gritzbaugh noted his Suunto Vector watch has been with him since his Army days and is still going strong.
Suunto Vector remains the gold standard worn regularly by tactical professionals. Robust and ready to stick with you in extreme events, a tactical watch is a smart decision to help guide your way to safety.
Available for $199.00
Grab and go bag: Timbuk2 Parkside Laptop Backpack
There is no shortage of great tactical professional bug out or covert-carry bags these days. But a business professional does not necessarily need all those bells and whistles – nor the hefty price tag that often goes along with it.
Gritzbaugh explained he carries the Timbuk2 Parkside Laptop Backpack. It fits in seamlessly to a work environment but also is fit for purpose to carry bare necessities in a crisis.
The backpack has smart padding to protect a laptop, but it can also fit back up clothes, water and other immediate essentials to carry you out of a threat zone.
Available for $69.00.

After fervently denying any enhancements to her au naturale physique, the now 18-year-old Courtney Stodden underwent breast implant surgery this weekend, bumping up a full two cup sizes.
"In real life, I was a C cup," the reality star, who filmed the surgery, told FOX411. "I've been wearing Victoria's Secret bras that enhance the look of your breast by two cup sizes, which gave the look of a DD."
After four years of "faking" her true cup size, Stodden finally went ahead with her decision despite concerns expressed by her momager.
"When Courtney told me she wanted to get implants, I didn't approve at first," Stodden's mom, Krista Keller told us. "But she is 18 now and it was her decision, so I support her completely."
Her husband of two years, Doug Hutchinson, 53, has also been supportive of the teen and has spent the past few days doting on his recovering wife.

Watch out, enemy drones. The U.S. military is developing laser weapons to smite you.
The Office of Naval Research announced last week that it is building a laser weapon that will be able to shoot down aerial drones, spelling big trouble for any enemy who tries to target the U.S. Marines.
GBAD – Ground-Based Air Defense Directed Energy On-the-Move – is a laser weapon designed to be installed on the Marines' Humvees, Joint Light Tactical Vehicles and other light tactical ground vehicles.
Watch out, enemy drones. The U.S. military is developing laser weapons to smite you.
Intended to provide an affordable alternative to traditional firepower, GBADs could prevent enemy drones from tracking and targeting Marines on the ground.
"We can expect that our adversaries will increasingly use UAVs (unmanned aerial vehicles), and our expeditionary forces must deal with that rising threat," said Col. William Zamagni, acting head of the Office of Naval Research's Expeditionary Maneuver Warfare and Combating Terrorism Department, in announcing plans for the new laser.
The System ONR is working with the Naval Surface Warfare Center Dahlgren Division and industry partners to develop components that include the laser, radar, advanced cooling, communications, batteries and beam director.
The program leverages investments in technology developed by the U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense Command and the Department of Defense High Energy Laser Joint Technology Office, as well as the Penn State Electro-Optics Center and MIT's Lincoln Laboratory.
Some of the system's components have already been used in tests to detect and track a range of unmanned aerial vehicles. But the fundamental challenge is to create a powerful laser weapon that is yet light enough to carry on light tactical vehicles without affecting their speed and agility.
"We're confident we can bring together all of these pieces in a package that's small enough to be carried on light tactical vehicles and powerful enough to counter these threats," said Brig. Gen. Kevin Killea, vice chief of naval research and commanding general of the Marine Corps Warfighting Laboratory.
Navy Deploys Lasers to Sea If you think laser weapons are the stuff of fiction, take note: The Navy has already developed a ship-based laser weapon that it plans to test this summer aboard the USS Ponce in the Persian Gulf.
Designed to target drones and light aircraft, it could be useful in other scenarios, as well, such as small boat attacks that aim to deny access to the shore.
The Navy's laser weapon trials have been successful so far. A 2011 test demonstrated that the weapon could destroy multiple small boats, and a year later a laser weapon downed several unmanned aircraft.
The Marine Corps is committed to making its laser a reality, as well.
"Aggressive action against air threats is needed for the Marine Air-Ground Task Force to conduct expeditionary maneuver," said Lee Mastroianni, program manager for force protection in ONR's Expeditionary Maneuver Warfare and Combating Terrorism Department.
"Everything about this program is geared toward realizing a viable directed-energy capability in support of that objective to allow our Marines to be fast and lethal."
Later this year, GBADs will be tested using a 10kW laser. A field test of the full 30kW version planned for 2016 is expected to demonstrate and evaluate detection, tracking and firing from mobile tactical vehicles.
The GBAD laser weapon falls within the Future Naval Capabilities (FNC) program, a science and technology program the Navy launched in 2002 to accelerate the process of going from research and development to delivery within five years.

What if tank crews could see through the heavily armored walls of their vehicle?
BAE System's cutting-edge tech, called BattleView 360, lets warfighters do just that. A crew member wearing the helmet-mounted tech can "see through" the tank out to the battlefield around them.
Technology innovation has long been underway to give fighter pilots this sort of capability. For example, the F-35 helmet utilizes cameras and sensors fixed around the outside of the jet to provide pilots with a 360-degree view. In a sense, the helmet lets fighter pilots see through the floor of the aircraft, down to the ground.
Related: The 'Sea Wasp' will be a potent threat to terrorists and their underwater bombs
The concept with the tank is the same – but on the ground. With BattleView 360, tank crews and commanders will have a complete view of the battlespace around them in real time – no matter how heavily armored the vehicle is.
The heart of BattleView is a digital mapping system. It collates, tracks and displays the position of anything of interest to a tank crew in the surrounding area. And it can do this in two-dimensions, or in three.
Expand / Contract
BattleView tablet.
(Bae Systems)
Why use it?
Aside from being very futuristic and cool, BattleView 360 provides a number of key advantages. One example is removing an enemy's element of surprise.
From inside heavily armored vehicles, it can be tough for crews to know what is going on outside. Personnel have to contend with both the noise and the limited visibility typical of highly armored vehicles.
Since seeing outside the vehicle can be tough, egress can be a particularly dangerous moment. Enemies could be lurking outside for an ambush, but unseen to the crew members before they dismount.
Related: Polaris Defense launches new ATV for Special Operations missions
By wearing a BattleView enhanced helmet, crews gain 360-degree situational awareness. Warning messages—  like that an enemy is approaching— as well as critical mission updates are relayed directly to the helmet.
BattleView is also designed to give crews the advantage of quickly engaging more targets and more rapidly confirming to shoot.
For the tank driver, the tech give him "external eyes." The driver can also choose to overlay the external 360-vision with other useful data like terrain input and other symbols to aid navigation.
How does it work?
There are two ways warfighters can interface with BattleView 360– through headgear and a rugged tablet. Crew can use either a special high-tech lens that mounts on their helmets, or a touchscreen display.
Both sync to cameras and sensors mounted outside the vehicle. It is this syncing that provides the real time ability for crews to "see through" the heavily armored walls. The sensors collect the data used to build a 360-degrees view of their surroundings.
For the headgear, a translucent lens sits in front of one eye, kind of like Google Glass. Data is projected onto it, and the warfighter can "see through" the tank with that eye.
Related: Australia's $39 billion submarine deal heralds new era of super-subs
He also gains enhanced vision. The cameras can feed both visual and infrared light – giving the warfighter the option to see in either way.
Warfighters equipped with BattleView can then further enhance their view of the battlespace with overlaid information and symbology. Information and visuals can also be provided beyond the sensors on the tank itself.
BattleView 360 harvests data from sensors and cameras on the tank or other armored vehicle, but it also can let the warfighter see through a range of "eyes," and overlay data immediately from other sources. For example, dismounted warfighters can use BattleView to send information back to the vehicle. Tank crews can receive data and even opt to see through the eyes of a drone, other armored vehicles, or ground robots.
What extra things can teams see?
In addition to displaying the positions of friendly forces, BattleView can do lots of other helpful things. It can be used to do tank route planning, progress monitoring, but it can also do critical calculations, like determine the best route to avoid enemy detection.
There is a red ground display that demarcates the ground that hostile forces can see – making it clear what route not to take. The technology can flag areas of uncertainty from last hostile sighting, and figure out the most likely routes an enemy would take.
The tablet style display provides certain advantages to a commander.
BattleView overlays crucial data that help commanders gain a full picture of the battlefield. For example, the system gathers, collates and displays data on friendly and enemy forces to help a commander rapidly identify and distinguish them. He can use the gathered data and enhanced "vision" to figure out safer routes.
Related: This huge combat tractor is the ultimate multitasker
In addition to aiding in quick, well-informed decisions, the BattleView tech also lets a commander communicate crucial data, like plans, directly to other tanks, vehicles, dismounted forces, and HQ.
The enhanced 360-picture of the battlefield can also help with targeting decisions. Tank commanders can even view a gunner's, or any other crew member's, display on his screen at any given time.
BattleView 360 can be integrated into both existing and new vehicles, and can be introduced to give warfighters this ultra-enhanced vision and situational awareness capability in future fights.

File photo. (Lockheed Martin)
US Air Force pilots are flying the newest fighter jets in a virtual world.
The military's fifth generation fighter jet, the F-35 Lightning II, will be flown by the Marine Corps, Navy and Air Force. They are not expected to be deployed until 2016 but that's not stopping Air Force pilots from getting ready to fly missions.
Related: F-35A Lightning II fighter gets new gun
Like something out of sci-fi movie "Ender's Game," the pilots can use the new virtual tech to rehearse and hone advanced combat tactics. Since all the simulators are linked, pilots can also practice F-35 operations anywhere in the world, which allows for greater flexibility in training while reducing cost.
Ultra advanced stealth and mega fast at supersonic speeds of about 1,199 miles per hour, the F-35 Lightning II is a fifth-generation fighter jet. Made by Lockheed Martin, the advanced powerful single-seat and single-engine fighter is designed to take on a range of missions with just one aircraft.
Related: Pentagon's vaunted F-35 earns lousy review from test pilot in secret report
The F-35 also features integrated avionics and powerful sensor packages that allow it to gather data, provide state-of-the-art, 360-degree situational awareness so that it can obtain information on targets and threats for rapid, effective strikes. The idea is that with the tech, F-35 pilots can spot enemy aircraft first -without being seen - and take decisive action.
Related: France's Rafale fighter jet: A key weapon against ISIS
The plane, however, has come under intense criticism due to its cost and delivery delays.
The F-35 is projected to cost about twice the original estimate and some have called it the most expensive U.S. weapons system ever made. The most expensive variant, the F-35B, is estimated to cost about $134 million per fighter.
Because of the cost, Sen. John McCain, an Arizona Republican, said earlier this month that the Pentagon may have to consider reducing the numbers of planes it orders. Originally, 1,043 of the 2,443 jet were supposed to be delivered by next September, McCain said, according to Bloomberg. So far, only 179 have been handed over.
"That leaves well over 2,000 to complete the program" so "we would have to purchase 100 F-35s per year for more than 20 years at a cost of $10 billion to $12 billion a year," said McCain, who spoke earlier this month at a reporters event organized by the Christian Science Monitor.  "That seems unlikely, and all that assumes the F-35 will provide the necessary capability."
The Marine Corps announced their F-35s had reached operational status this past summer, while the Air Force aims for their F-35s to be combat ready next year and the Navy in 2018.
Related: How US firefighters could harness the power of military drones
The Air Force is preparing for the initial F-35 operations with the help of the F-35 Training System. It includes virtual simulators that features virtual tech with enhanced accuracy that replicates the real cockpit and flying environment.
In all of the high-fidelity simulators, pilots are challenged with realistic experiences. Pilots can train on all three aircraft variants: the F-35A conventional takeoff and landing (CTOL) variant, the F-35B short takeoff/vertical landing (STOVL) variant, and the F-35C carrier variant (CV).
For example, pilots may want to practice tricky takeoffs and landings like a Shipborne Rolling Vertical Landing. They can also use the simulators to develop tactics with the new aircraft such as for dogfighting or air combat maneuvering. Pilots can practice using the F-35s new capabilities to maneuver and gain an advantage over an enemy fighter, for example.
Related: Navy's powerful Poseidon spy plane deploys amid South China sea row
The pilots are also using the virtual tech to practice flying the F-35s together against both ground and airborne threats that include enemy aircraft and drones.
Thus far, more than 140 Air Force pilots and 840 maintainers have been qualified through the F-35 Training System.
By August 2016, there will be nearly 200 F-35 pilots mission ready and the first pilots are expected to come from the 34th Fighter Squadron at Hill Air Force Base in Utah.

SubHeading The lovely Courtney Stodden
Courtney's not one to shy away from the spotlight.
Courtney Stodden made headlines this summer when she married "Lost" actor Doug Hutchinson, (he was 51, she was 16). Since then Stodden's Twitter and Facebook antics and penchant for revealing outfits have made he an Internet and entertainment television staple and turned 2011 into a "winning" year.
At least according to VH1.
HOT SHOTS: Courtney Stodden.
Stodden has been named one of the cable channel's Top 40 Winningest Winners of 2011, and she told FOX411 what she thinks makes her one of VH1's Top 40 titans.
"I believe I was chosen to be a part of VH1's Top 40 Winningest Winners of 2011 because I live freely," she said. "I am not at all afraid to show the world who I am as a person, what I stand for or what I believe in. I radiate nothing but truth and confidence and will continue to  -- always -- as I thank God  for everything along this prosperous journey."

Courtney Stodden and Jessica Simpson (CourtneyStodden.com/GQ)
Think you're seeing double?
Well, if you kind of blur your eyes, you could easily mistake 16-year-old bride and aspiring pop singer Courtney Stodden for 31-year-old pop singer and fashion magnate Jessica Simpson.
And the comparisons don't stop with their buxom blonde looks and American flag apparel.
We've compiled a list of 12 reasons Stodden could be the 'Newlyweds' star of her generation. (But not her husband's.)
1. Married Young to Older, More Successful Men
Jessica was 22 when she married 29-year-old, 98 Degrees singer Nick Lachey.
Courtney, 16, needed parental consent, which she got from her mother, to marry the 51-year-old "Lost" actor, who is four years older than her father.
2. Saving Themselves For Marriage
Both beauties say they remained virgins until their wedding nights.
Jessica's father, Joe, gave her a purity ring at the age of 12 and the singer said she remained a virgin until her wedding to Nick Lachey.
Courtney told GMA in an interview that "I was a virgin when I married...I knew that if I kept that I would really be blessed with a beautiful gift and God did, he blessed me with my soul mate."
3. Good Christian Girls
Jessica, a minister's daughter, began singing at her church choir at the age of 12 and while attending high school, the aspiring singer signed with a small gospel label before the company went bankrupt.
Courtney is a self-proclaimed "good Christian girl." (At this point all we have to go on his her word.)
4. Sexy Patriots, They Support the Troops
Jessica made her first trip overseas to sing for our troops in 2001, and has been actively involved with USO tours since then.
Courtney can been seen posing in a sexy American flag towel on her web site where she writes that she plans on singing her song, "We are America,"  for the troops at Fort Lewis/McChord, WA "in honor of their tireless service to our country."
PHOTOS: See Courtney in FOX411's American Flag Bikini Fashion
5. Education, Shmeducation
Jessica dropped out of high school her senior year to focus on her singing career and eventually went on to earn her GED.
Courtney has no plans to go to college telling the "Father Albert" show that "[Doug] is my college."
Wonder what her major is?
6. Suspect Parenting
Jessica's dad Joe was accused of selling out his young, sexy daughter to magazines like Maxim.He defended himself saying, "That's God's business, judgment. Our reason was, we're not too good to do Maxim. My first responsibility is to be a father, before I'm a manager, before I'm an executive producer. It's complicated, but it's worked so far."
Courtney's mom Krista is her manager and the one who introduced Courtney to her husband. The momager defended her decision to allow her teenage daughter to marry the 51-year-old thusly. "We all needed a good man in our lives," Krista told Fox411. "After a while you don't look at the age. You look at the love they started to have towards each other. He became more than a number to us."
FOX411's Exclusive Interview with Courtney's Mom
7. Victims of Bullying
Although she was homecoming queen and a cheerleader at her high school, Jessica said she was a victim of frequent bullying. "I had girls egging my home, writing curse words on the sidewalk in paint – just saying really nasty things about me," she said at the 2010 Women's Conference in Long Beach, CA. "I quit cheerleading because I didn't know what I was cheering for anymore!"
Courtney has addressed the issue of bullying in a video on her YouTube channel, and her song, "Don't Put It On Me Girl," was inspired by the aspiring singer's experience with bullying. Her mom told Fox411 that Courtney began home schooling in the sixth grade after relentless bullying and teasing from girls at her school.
8. Named Self-Released Album After Themselves
Jessica signed with Proclaim, a Gospel record label, and recorded her first album, Jessica. However, before the album was released the company went bankrupt, and Jessica's grandmother funded a small pressing of the album, which eventually led to her signing with Columbia records.
Courtney's only album, Courtney, can be heard on her YouTube channel and MySpace profile.
9. Inappropriate Parental Chatter
Jessica's dad came under fire for addressing his daughter's breasts in an interview with GQ. "Jessica never tries to be sexy. … She just is sexy. If you put her in a T-shirt or you put her in a bustier, she's sexy in both. She's got double D's! You can't cover those suckers up!"
Courtney has faced allegations that she must have had plastic surgery, but her mom, Krista told Fox411 that "Everything is real...usually when girls have little cute bodies, they don't have large breasts, but she's had no work done, and she doesn't need anything done."
Her husband, Doug told GMA that "Courtney's plastic surgeon was God."
Can't make this stuff up.
10. Criticized For Their Sexy Looks
Jessica was criticized by a group called "The Resistance" after the release of her "These Boots Are Made For Walking" music video. In response Jessica told the World Entertainment News Network: "It didn't really surprise me because I grew up with a lot of that backlash. That's why I didn't end up going into the Christian music industry. I think that if they're really good Christians the judgment wouldn't be there."
Courtney has had to answer critics who have said she dresses more like a hooker than a 16-year-old girl. She said she isn't fazed when woman call names, and in fact she welcomes it! "If a women doesn't call me that [slut] when I walk by, I think I need to go home and redo my hair, because I don't look as good as I did when they call me that," she told the "Father Albert" show.
FOX411: More Courtney Stodden Photos and Videos.
11. They Are Ditzy
Simpson famously told Nick Lachey on their show that she thought Chicken of the Sea was in fact made of chickens.
That single quote cemented 'Newlyweds' and Simpson in reality show history.
In an interview with E!, Stodden described her deepening relationship with her now husband as "falling, flying on the wings of love together."
Not "Chicken of the Sea" quality, but she's just getting started people!
12. Reality Ready
Jessica signed onto "Newlyweds" in 2003 in hopes that the show would give her career a boost as she released her album, "In This Skin." It worked. The show became MTV's highest rated prime-time show and vaulted Jessica onto the Hollywood A-list. (Or at least B+ list.)
Courtney and Doug have said that they have been "courted" by various producers on doing a reality show about their May-December marriage. Courtney also told GMA that "if it [her marriage to Doug] does, you know, [boost her career] that's just another beautiful blessing that God hands to me. But if I'm just with for the rest of my life and supporting him that would make me happy, too."
You can find Sasha Savitsky on Twitter @SashaFB.

Meet the 32-ton armored combat vehicle that's the ultimate tractor— albeit one that can punch holes through concrete, fire rockets, and carve safe passage through minefields for soldiers.
BAE Systems' Terrier is affectionately known as the Swiss Army Knife of combat vehicles because there isn't anything it can't tackle. A multi-tool on a giant scale, the Terrier is a number of critical vehicles all in one. It can quickly adapt to tackle a range of important tasks. It even has a 26-foot arm.
Terrier can destroy enemy runways, rip holes in concrete compounds where terrorists hide, and dismantle bridges.
Related: DARPA wants your weapon ideas, offers cash prizes
This mammoth machine beast can even unleash PYTHON rocket-propelled explosives to destroy concealed IEDS, protecting dismounted troops.
What can it do?
Like tractors found all throughout the United States, Terrier can lift, grab and move things. But the Terrier is next level: its front loader system can lift five tons.
It can move a staggering 300 tons of earth per hour – that's about the weight of 120 5,000-pound SUVs.
The vehicle can deploy its excavator arm and bucket to destroy bridges, obstacles, and more. In both day and night conditions, the vehicle's cameras provide 360-degree vision.
Related: Inside the first-ever Special Ops Urban Assault competition
In spite of weighing a mammoth 32 tons, Terrier can reach speeds of more than 45 miles per hour. Off-roading is no problem for Terrier, and it can even execute missions that require travelling through water and braving six-foot waves.
This cutting-edge vehicle can even be run by remote control from about 3300 feet away.
Defeating bombs
So it can shift an enormous amount of weight— but that's just the beginning of its talents in war zones.
In the battlespace, IEDs remains a serious, ongoing threat. Terrier can help defeat this threat and play a key role in keeping military, aid personnel, and civilians safe.
Related: 6 top picks in elite sniper tech
Terrier's telescopic investigation arm extends over more than 26 feet from the vehicle. The long arm allows warfighters to probe and unearth buried devices from a safe distance.
A special IED-focused plow--like a massive cattle guard— can also be quickly attached to Terrier to defeat this threat.
Hammer, ripper and auger
The highly adaptive Terrier is packed with features. Terriers can now also come equipped with a rock hammer, ripper and earth auger.
Terrier's hammer can split rocks and even penetrate concrete. Its ripper can tear up roads or runways. How is that useful downrange? One example would be preventing enemy use of transportation routes.
And for combat engineering tasks, the Terrier's earth auger can drill holes.
BAE System's new advancements mean the Terrier will also be able to wade through much deeper waters. It will even be able to withstand more than six-foot wave surges.
For combat, the surge protection and the deeper wading capabilities mean the Terrier can be even more useful in coastal and other low-lying areas. Beyond combat, the enhanced wading will mean better support in humanitarian aid and disaster response.
Related: Top special operations snipers go head to head
BAE Systems designed the Terrier to provide the British Army with maximum flexibility from a single vehicle.
Terrier's all in one, streamlined approach means the military can reduce the massive equipment they need downrange and just bring one vehicle to do the jobs of several.

All Terrain Vehicle fan? The latest and greatest in pimped-out ATVs designed for Special Operations just got even better.
Polaris Defense will announce a new high-performance MRZR turbo diesel (MRZR-D) Wednesday, joining its stable of state-of-the art off road vehicles. The company will debut the new vehicles at the Special Operations Forces Industry Conference in Florida next week.
The ultra-light MRZRs have long been a military favorite for their excellent off-road mobility. They are easily configurable and allow operators to quickly prepare for missions and tackle the most extreme terrain with maximum flexibility. In addition to the U.S., more than 20 allied countries rely on MRZRs to meet mission demands.
The new MRZR-D features a turbo-charged diesel engine that has been engineered to meet the same outstanding performance of the original MRZRs.
Related: Hidden high-tech ocean pods will unleash Naval drones
Diesel is standard for military vehicles and often far more readily available in areas of operations, so this change will provide more flexibility. MRZRs are also easily transportable via tactical aircraft to wherever in the world they are needed – another key feature that makes them very fit for the purpose of Special Operations work.
What's new?
Polaris Defense actively gathered feedback from operators and incorporated it into the new vehicle. "Throughout the last three years, we've had an open dialogue with Polaris about how we were using the MRZRs, and enhancements that would help us complete our missions more effectively," explained U.S. Special Operations Command (USSOCOM) Light Tactical All-Terrain Tactical Vehicle (LTATV) Acquisition Program Manager Brendon Reedy, in a statement. "In the case of the MRZR-D, we suggested changes to improve sightlines and ergonomics which were incorporated."
The enhancements include refinements such as better sightlines, occupant seating space and ergonomics. The MRZR-D also has even better range and more auxiliary power. Features such as handling, dimensions, payload and ground clearance have remained the same.
Have Aircraft will Travel
Like the MRZRs, the MRZR-D vehicles can be transported downrange with V-22 helicopters. They can be configured a range of ways - including two-, four- and six-person teams.
Related: Australia's $39 billion submarine deal heralds new era of super-subs
Once on land, off-road capability can be essential for Special Operations to execute many types of missions so the MRZRs can provide lots of advantages.
For example, the vehicle's ruggedness broadens access to remote locations and teams can move faster and lighter with more gear. By reducing the weight they need to carry and shifting the work to the MRZR-D, combat fatigue for the warfighter can be reduced and performance optimized.
These Special Operations-optimized ATVs feature on-demand advanced all-wheel drive.  When more traction is needed, the vehicle automatically engages all four wheels and can automatically revert back to two-wheel. This advanced technology translates into more power when an operator needs it on a mission and also less general wear and tear on the vehicle.
The MRZR-D 2 can carry 1,000 pounds while the MRZR-D 4 can carry 1,500.
Both variants also reach about 60 mph maximum speed with 88 HP engines that have been designed for extreme performance in the toughest terrain. The vehicles have fantastic throttle response and acceleration.
Related: Meet the military's new $1 billion jammer
They also have standard features like a winch, aircraft tie-downs, large cargo boxes and fold-down rollover structures for operator protection.
To ensure maximum agility, the ATVs are built with a low center of gravity. In part, this is achieved by cunning placement of key components like the engine. The vehicles also have keyless ignition, which makes it easy to jump in and go.
The smooth, highly responsive electronic power steering can help reduce fatigue for operators that have to drive for very long periods.  The roll cage has a smart design that provides protection, but can be quickly and easily removed without tools.
Last year USSOCOM awarded Polaris Defense a new contract for the MRZR. The $83 million, five year deal continued delivery order options for the MRZR 2 and MRZR 4s. The MRZR2 is an ideal variant to carry two operators and the MRZR 4 can carry four, or even six, depending on the configuration.
Production of the vehicles will continue for USSOCOM and other international contracts.

File photo - A P-8A Poseidon, assigned to Patrol Squadron (VP) 30, flies over the aircraft carrier USS Harry S. Truman (U.S. Navy photo by Mass Communication Specialist 2nd Class Mike DiMestico/Released).
The U.S has received permission to place a P-8 Poseidon spy plane in Singapore amid tensions with China over the South China Sea. Capable of a range of missions, the commercial jet-sized spy plane is a powerful weapon in the U.S. Navy's arsenal.
The Poseidon spy plane is spending a week out at the South China Sea.
Made by Boeing Defense, Poseidon is designed to take on the subs and surface vessels. It can also conduct missions gathering intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance.
Related: 11 stunning F-22 fighter jet images
Poseidon is the god of the sea and protector of the water domain in Greek mythology. The aircraft P-8A Poseidon was created to perform a similar role for the U.S. Navy.
Eyes of the Navy
Maritime patrol aircraft act as the eyes of the Navy fleet with Poseidon scouring the world's oceans for any potential threat. This aircraft will also be able to respond very quickly if a threat is spotted.
Poseidon can also carry more and operate at higher altitudes than many similar aircraft – further boosting maritime patrol capabilities.
Related: 11 amazing A-10 Warthog images
Based on Boeing's 737-800 commercial airplane, it has the fuselage of a 737-800 and the wings of a 737-900.
The large aircraft is just shy of130 feet long with a wingspan of just over 123 feet. It can deploy 4,500 miles from its base without refueling. The P-8 Poseidon has a flight ceiling of 41,000 feet.
Capable of travelling 564 mph, its two engines are made by CFM International and provide about 27,000 pounds of takeoff thrust each.
Related: Why France's Rafale fighter jet is a key weapon against ISIS
The aircraft is designed to do more with less man-power. The P-8A Poseidon holds a crew of nine and can operate as an armed platform to take on targets.
Poseidon is armed with torpedoes and cruise missiles. Raytheon provides Poseidon's MK 54 lightweight torpedo and the AN/APY-10 radar that gives provides all-weather, day and night multi-mission surveillance capabilities.
Northrop Grumman provides the aircraft's directional infrared countermeasures, its electronic support systems and data links. GE Aviation's electronics provides the plane's control system for integrated weapons. Other Poseidon partners include Spirit AeroSystems and BAE Systems.
Related: Historic tanks in pictures
Poseidon can also communicate with drones, leveraging the enhanced technology, sensors and weapons systems they can bring to the fight. While engaging an adversary, the Poseidon can also relay critical data across the military network.
The next-gen fleet
In August, Boeing received a $1.49 billion contract for 13 more Poseidons. The order includes nine aircraft for the U.S. Navy and four Poseidons for the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF), a long-time P-8A development partner of the U.S. Navy. Ultimately, the Navy plans to purchase 117 of the aircraft, which will replace its P-3C fleet.
The P-3C Orion is a four-engine, anti-submarine and surveillance aircraft that has acted as a maritime patrol plane for about half a century.
U.S. Poseidons already operate from the Philippines and Japan.  The aircraft have also departed from Malaysia on surveillance missions.
The U.S. recently reached an agreement with Singapore to deploy a Poseidon to the country. U.S. Defense Secretary Ash Carter and Singapore Defense Minister Ng Eng Hen issued a joint statement Monday. In August 2014, the U.S. asserted that a Chinese jet flew dangerously close to one of the Navy's Poseidons.
The Poseidon Singapore deployment runs from Dec.7 through Dec.14. The U.S. military also plans to base another military reconnaissance plane at Singapore's Paya Lebar air base.
Tensions have escalated in the region since China has ramped up its territorial claims in the South China Sea. China asserted the Poseidon Singapore deployment was intended to militarize the region in a statement issued Tuesday.

What happens when a terrorist hunting drone and a resupply helicopter drone join forces?
Fires get stopped.
Aircraft with human pilots have been supporting American firefighters for several decades. This is a new generation of machines helping to fight fires.
The Stalker Extended Endurance (XE) and K-MAX drones could reinforce firefighters and potentially reduce the risk to the lives of first responders.
Last year alone, there were a staggering 1,298,000 fires reported in the U.S., resulting in more than 3,275 civilian deaths and 15,775 injuries.
Related: Compact 'canister' drone battles terrorism
Both Stalker and K-MAX are designed to be cutting-edge military tech, but they also have great potential for civilians to help reduce the loss of life and life-changing injuries suffered every year.
How do the drone duo fight fires?
Basically, Stalker XE is the boss and K-MAX does the heavy lifting. Stalker XE is a small surveillance drone and K-MAX is a large resupply helicopter one. Together, they can fight fires all by themselves. Stalker finds the fire and directs K-MAX to drop water at exactly the right location to put it out.
Expand / Contract
Stalker XE and K-MAX (Lockheed Martin).
They're both unmanned systems, or drones. Stalker uses its state-of-the-art military tech to flag and precisely locate a fire. The drone then communicates with the much bigger K-MAX, which is loaded up with water.
In a recent demonstration, Stalker XE successfully directed K-MAX to drop water exactly at the necessary spots to put out the fire.
Related: Amazon shows off drone delivery prototypes
Heat can be a serious challenge in fighting fires. In spite of the immense heat fire can generate, K-MAX was designed to maintain performance in extremes and can still perform.
Conditions like smoke can also limit traditional missions due to visibility for human pilots, but K-MAX can carry on picking up water and delivering it by itself in low visibility conditions.
Bungee-Launched Stalker XE
Stalker XE is an intelligence, surveillance and recon drone made by Lockheed Martin's Skunk Works, famous for innovative aircraft design.
Popular with special operations, Stalker XE is a small drone with a 12-foot wingspan. When flown at about 400 feet, it is silent to people on the ground.
Related: 'Bird' gadget lets you control a drone with your finger
Launched by just one operator and a bungee, it can stay aloft for more than eight hours, reach speeds of 45 mph and heights of up to 15,000 feet with its ruggedized solid oxide fuel cell.
It is designed to provide high-definition images in a range of the extreme environments. In both daylight and at night, the drone can provide images and data.
In addition to its high-def capabilities, Stalker XE's image-tracking tech has the ability to pan, tilt and zoom using its electro-optical infrared camera, which can precisely locate and analyze fire intensity for K-MAX. The imagers and laser can also provide precise geo-referenced imagery products for human firefighting teams to review.
Manufactured by Kaman and equipped with Lockheed Martin's advanced mission systems and sensors, K-MAX is used by the military to get massive amounts of supplies to forces quickly. It can lift and deliver a whopping 6,000 pounds of cargo at sea level as well as travel at speeds of about 115 mph.
Related: The laser cannon that kills drones
During a three-year period between 2011 and 2014, when it deployed with the U.S. Marine Corps, for example, K-MAX delivered more than 4.5 million pounds of cargo for the Corps while flying more than 1,900 missions.
Its design includes a four-hook carousel that helps to maximize the cargo it can deliver to different locations in just one flight.
With the drone's advanced autonomy tech, K-MAX can deploy day and night on repeat missions – without the limiting factor of human fatigue and crew availability.
The helicopters twin-rotor design helps to maximize lift in extreme environments. Very robust, it has also been designed to fly in all sorts of challenging weather conditions.
Will they get the chance to fight fires in the U.S.?
Recently, both drones worked together to fight a fire successfully integrated into the National Airspace System. Using a prototype of unmanned Traffic Management tech, the robot team effectively communicated with Air Traffic Control in real time.
This is a key step forward to joining the fight against fires. Because for these drones to deploy in civilian space, they need to prove they can cooperate with, and within, the civilian airspace framework.

File photo - A French F-2 Rafale fighter performs a touch-and-go during combined French and American carrier qualifications aboard the aircraft carrier USS Theodore Roosevelt (CVN 71). The Theodore Roosevelt Carrier Strike Group is participating in Joint Task Force Exercise "Operation Brimstone" off the Atlantic coast. (U.S. Navy photo by Mass Communication Specialist 3rd Class Sheldon Rowley/Released)
In response to Friday's horrific terror attacks in Paris, France is ramping up its air power and taking the fight to Islamic State.
Following the attacks France has conducted a series of airstrikes against the ISIS stronghold of Raqqa in northeastern Syria. The strikes were coordinated with U.S. forces.
These missions focused on targets including an ISIS command center, munitions depot, recruiting post and a training camp. French fighters also conducted strikes earlier this year in the weeks following the tragic terrorist attack on satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo.
Related: Taking the fight to ISIS? Here's a free rifle
Reports indicate that France's Rafale jet is once again playing a key role in the fight against ISIS.
The Rafale fighter jet can conduct air-to-air attacks and interceptions. It can also conduct air-to-ground strikes.
The aircraft has a wingspan just shy of 36 feet and is approximately 50 feet long with a height of about 17 feet.
Related: Compact 'canister' drone battles terrorism
This fast jet can reach speeds of 860  mph and fly at a ceiling of 50,000 feet. The landing ground run is about 1,500 feet without a drag chute.
The twin-engine fighter can be refueled in air using the French "buddy to buddy" system. When empty, the aircraft weighs 22,000 pounds and its maximum takeoff weight is 54,000 pounds.
Bringing nine tons of weaponry to the fight
Rafale can carry about nine tons of weaponry and ordnance – and it can be armed with a number of different options.
For attack or self-defense needs, both in visual range and beyond, the Rafale can be equipped with MICA air-to-air missiles. These missiles can either deploy as heat-seeking (IR) or active radar (EM). Rafale will also be able to carry the METEOR long-range air-to-air missile when it becomes available.
Related: Navy taps Raytheon for sophisticated 'last chance' gun system
This fighter can also carry the SCALP long-range missile, the AM39 EXOCET anti-ship missile as well as laser-guided bombs.
For air-to-ground strikes, Rafale can be armed with HAMMER (Highly Agile and Maneuverable Munition Extended Range), a rocket-boosted air-to-ground precision-guided weapon.
Both the single and two-seater variants can carry the NEXTER 30M791 30 mm internal cannon that delivers 2,500 rounds per minute.
Related: Army takes aim with more M4 weapons
There are a number of Rafale variants, and the French Ministry of Defense has received 180 of the aircraft from manufacturer Dassault Aviation. The French Air Force got 63 Rafale B two-seaters and 69 Rafale C single-seaters. The French Navy got 48 of the aircraft as Rafale M naval single-seaters.
France has previously deployed its Rafales in Libya, Afghanistan, Iraq, Mali and Central African Republic.  Rafales are also popular with foreign governments like Egypt and the United Arab Emirates, which have both acquired fleets of them.
Reports suggest that France has nine Rafales already placed in the U.A.E. and six Mirage fighters in Jordan. With aircraft carrier Charles de Gaulle headed towards the Middle East again, it could bring more than 20 additional fighters to the region for France.
Ballet dancer turned defense specialist Allison Barrie has traveled around the world covering the military, terrorism, weapons advancements and life on the front line. You can reach her at wargames@foxnews.com or follow her on Twitter @Allison_Barrie.

Courtney Stodden in one of her videos and Doug Hutchinson in an episode of "Lost." (YouTube/ABC)
Courtney Alexis Stodden, 16, married "Lost" actor Doug Hutchison, 51, in Las Vegas last month.
The marriage was legal because Las Vegas law states that as long as one parent or legal guardian consents, one can marry at the age of 16.
Stodden got that parental consent from her mom and dad, Alex and Krista Stodden.
FOX411.com talked to Krista Stodden, and she explained why she allowed her 16-year old daughter to marry her 51-year old manager.
FOX411: More Courtney Stodden Photos and Videos.
"We all needed a good man in our lives," said Krista, adding the 35-year age gap does not faze her. "After a while you don't look at the age. You look at the love they started to have towards each other. He became more than a number to us."
Courtney, an aspiring actress, model and pop singer, met her husband when he began managing her career. Her parents welcomed Hutchinson, who is four years older than his new father-in-law, into their lives when he started dating their daughter.
"He was her manager, and then as we got to know him, we got to see what kind of person he was," Krista said. "He just became a wonderful person in our eyes, and he's a great Christian man."
Courtney and Doug did not want to wait the two years until she turned 18 to marry. (Once you are 18, you do not need parental consent.)
"I think probably because the distance, they didn't want to wait," explained Krista.  "They lived in different areas and, you know, they just wanted to be together and we supported her on that."
Without that support, Courtney and Doug would not have been able to marry.
Las Vegas attorney Robert Massi gave FOX411.com the legal guidelines for minors getting married.
"A person at least 16 years of age, but less than 18 years of age, may marry only if the person has the consent of either a parent or legal guardian," said Massi.
Most 16-year olds are not focused on finding a husband.  According to mother Krista, her daughter was no different. She said Courtney, home schooled since the 6th grade, was not looking for love.
"She never thought that she would find the right person and when she found Doug, she said 'I never really wanted to get married but I found someone perfect for me and you never know what age you're going to find that person at'," said Krista.
According to Krista, Courtney is used to being in the spotlight. She began modeling at the age of 12 and by 14 she was hosting her own online show called "The Courtney Stodden Show."
Courtney has also been the victim of cyber bullying, addressing many hurtful comments she has encountered on her YouTube channel.
"Courtney is used to this type of reaction towards her," said Krista. "She's a very beautiful girl and she stands out, because she's shockingly beautiful when you see her in person. She reads some of the negative things people wrote about her but she's strong."
Since the story broke, the young teen has been bombarded with questions on whether she has had breast implants.
"Everything is real," insists Krista. "Usually when girls have little cute bodies, they don't have large breasts, but she's had no work done, and she doesn't need anything done."
The Stoddens are happy that their daughter has found the love of her life.
"He's such a good person for our daughter and we are so comfortable with him and her because he is such a great man," said Krista. "They have a wonderful life together."
Courtney has no current plans to attend college and instead is focusing on making it big in the entertainment industry, a dream her mother has always supported.
The newlyweds currently reside in Hollywood, California.
You can find Sasha Savitsky on Twitter @SashaFB.

(Staff. Sgt. Jacob Braman, U.S. Army)
Top sniper teams from the U.S. Army, Navy and Marines went head to head last week -- but who proved they were the best?
Snipers from the world's most elite special operations forces converged on Fort Bragg, North Carolina for the seventh annual Special Operations Command International Sniper Competition hosted by the U.S. Army Special Operations Command.
The annual competition is five grueling days designed to test the world's best snipers to the limit. Some 25 teams took part in 21 incredibly difficult events during the competition, which ran from March 20 through March 25.
Related: American Sniper widow Taya Kyle outshoots NRA champion
A diverse range of teams competed, including snipers representing Special Forces (the Green Berets), Rangers, Special Mission units, Navy SEALS, Marine Special Operations and Federal law enforcement officers.
Foreign allied special operations forces units including teams from Singapore, Kazakhstan and Ireland joined American snipers to battle it out for the title. Ireland took the winning title at Fort Benning's 14th annual International Sniper Competition last October, but did not repeat their success this year.
The U.S. Army dominated the latest event, trouncing contenders to take all three of the top titles. The U.S. Special Forces team from 3rd Group took first place while teams from U.S. Army Special Operations Command teams took second and third.
Related: Futuristic military railgun 'bullets' could travel at Mach 6
The U.S. Army John F. Kennedy Special Warfare Center and School and the U.S. Army's Special Operations Center of Excellence's (SOCoE) Special Forces Sniper Course Cadre ran the competition. The SOCoE is also home to other very elite training like honing urban combat skills.
The 1st Special Warfare Training Group (Airborne) hosts the competition. Special Forces Association-Chapter 62 provides additional support alongside The Special Forces Charitable Trust and other sponsors.
Why pit sniper against sniper?
Testing the skills of the world's best reveals how everyone stacks up, but it is also an important opportunity to sharpen skills and learn from each other. Special Forces Association (SFA) Chapter 62 Treasurer and Co-owner of Spartan Blades Mark Carey explained that the competition is designed to "test the combat skills of our units and allies, with a good competition this promotes individual and unit training throughout the year."
For the sniper instructor cadre, the competition helps keep training relevant. It also means that knowledge gained in battle by different sniper units across the forces can be harvested and incorporated into the instruction of Special Forces snipers.
Related: New tech gives US helicopter pilots 'Superman-style' vision
The SFA helps get sponsors for the event, hosts a lavish banquet and obtains prizes that act as a further draw for top competitors.
The challenges
Two-man sniper teams competed in 21 challenging events. The teams hit Fort Bragg's Range 37 to compete in day-and-night sniper challenges throughout the week.
The challenges are drawn from real special operations soldiers' combat experience. They are incredibly difficult, always varied designed to challenge the most accomplished of snipers.
Related: High-tech sponge can save lives in less than 20 seconds
The snipers had to engage targets ranging from 25 meters (82 feet) to 1,000 meters (3,280 feet) while moving through urban environments and tackling tactical challenges.
Snipers faced these challenges while battling against variables like distance and unknown circumstances. To succeed, snipers needed to not just shoot accurately but also communicate effectively and efficiently with each other.
All this had to be achieved while racing against the clock.
Rock star prizes for rock star snipers
While teams vied for the prestige of winning top honors, amazing prizes were also up for grabs. These include sniper rifles made by LaRue Tactical and NEMO Arms, optics by FLIR, MilSight and Night Force Scopes, and sophisticated shooter technology such as Kestrel Weather Elite Meter with Applied Ballistics.
Snipers could also check out and try a wide range of state-of-the-art sniper gear from nearly 70 vendors.
Ballet dancer turned defense specialist Allison Barrie has traveled around the world covering the military, terrorism, weapons advancements and life on the front line. You can reach her at wargames@foxnews.com or follow her on Twitter @Allison_Barrie.
More from FoxNews.com Tech:
Top special operations snipers go head to head
Folding gun that looks like a smartphone worries police
Oculus Rift review roundup: Virtual Reality still trying to get real
Apple still doesn't know how FBI hacked San Bernardino terrorist's iPhone without their help

An EA-18G Growler. (U.S. Navy/Lyle H. Wilkie)
One billion dollars of electronic warfare tech will be amping up the Growler fighter jet.
This week, the U.S. Navy awarded a $1 billion contract to Raytheon to build the Next Generation Jammer (NGJ). Chosen to replace the legacy ALQ-99 systems used on the EA-18G Growler, the NGJ is a cutting-edge electronic attack smart pod that will take the already-impressive Growler capabilities to an unprecedented level.
The NGJ will play a vital role in staying ahead of adversaries' capabilities. The tech will give the US military even greater power, further enhanced precision, and a faster response time for electronic attack and electronic warfare counter-measures.
Related: This huge combat tractor is the ultimate multitasker
To help thwart adversaries from targeting them, US forces can deploy jammers, making aircraft and troops "invisible" to enemy tech.  Preventing detection enables effective strikes and helps keep American fighters safe.
Jammers can also even be used to create phantom aircraft to mislead enemy forces into believing other aircraft are in the air.
The NGJ will enhance what is arguably the most advanced airborne electronic attack aircraft in the world: the EA-18G Growler. The Growler regularly provides tactical jamming and electronic protection to U.S. military forces and allies around the world.
A variant of the F/A-18F Super Hornet, the aircraft combines electronic attack with fighter aircraft speed and maneuverability. Typically crewed with one pilot and one weapon systems officer, Growler can reach speeds of 1190 mph.
Ahead of ground, maritime, and other aircraft teams, Growler can enter the fight first, unleashing a devastating electronic attack. Using electronic attack tech, the aircraft can suppress enemy air and ground defenses.
Related: DARPA wants your weapon ideas, offers cash prizes
By jamming enemy radar, the Growler helps both air crews and ground strike teams to reach their target without being detected.
In addition to jamming the adversary's communications over a broad frequency range, the ALQ-227 Communications Countermeasures Set also allows the Growler to locate, record, and play back enemy transmissions.
US forces need to work in heavily jammed environments. The Growler can unleash its Interference Cancellation System to defeat the jamming systems and ensure uninterrupted radio communications for ground, maritime, and air forces.
Equipped with AIM-120 Advanced Medium-Range Air-to-Air Missiles, the Growler can protect itself as well as attack enemy aircraft.
How does it work?
Electronic warfare capabilities are shrouded in secrecy and the NGJ is no exception.
In electronic warfare, radio waves, laser light or other directed energy are weaponized to disrupt, disable, or confuse the enemy's electronics. This type of capability also allows US forces to sense incoming missile radar, listen to adversaries' radio signals, and more.
Related: Inside the first-ever Special Ops Urban Assault competition
Very few details have emerged about the NGJ, but here's what we know. NGJ will involve a combination of agile, high-powered beam-jamming techniques together with truly next gen solid-state electronics. Many of the Growler's jamming capabilities fit in the gun bay and in two wingtip pods.
The military will receive 14 Growler aeromechanical pods for airworthiness certification as well as 15 Engineering Development Model pods for mission systems testing and qualification from Raytheon.
The Navy is aiming for operational capability in 2021.

What if the U.S. could seed secret pods deep in the oceans that suddenly burst out of the water unleashing devastating surprise attacks on the enemy? While this sounds like the stuff of science fiction the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) is working to make this amazing project science fact.
Known as Upward Falling Payloads (UFPs), the pods are made by DARPA, which aims to develop innovative technologies to keep the U.S. safe.
Hidden throughout global seas, the giant pods would let the U.S. Navy launch surprise attacks anytime, anywhere. UFPs would let the Navy deploy Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), or drones, to provide surveillance and other key cutting-edge tech to support operations.
How does it work?
UFPs resemble giant 15-foot high pods or capsules. Inside is state-of-the art military techology.
Related: Australia's $39 billion submarine deal heralds new era of super-subs
The military would pre-position these huge pods throughout the oceans. The pods would enter hibernation and could be activated after weeks, months, or years.
When needed, the military would command the UFP to "wake up." The pod would then set off on its rapid journey from ocean deep to surface using its buoyancy collar.
Expand / Contract
Artist's concept (DARPA).
Once at the surface, the pod's contents are released. Inside the pod could be a small UAV that would burst forth to provide eyes in the sky. Alternatively, the capsule could contain a futuristic weapon system that provides a decisive element in a surprise attack. DARPA is working on a number of decisive payloads that could fit within the UFP.
What are the challenges?
There are four key elements to developing UFPs: survival in the depths for long periods of time, communicating with the pod, how the pods travel from the ocean depths to the surface and the payloads themselves – what is hidden inside the pod.
Related: Meet the military's new $1 billion jammer
Whether on the ocean floor or in the darkest depths, the UFPs must survive under very extreme ocean pressure for very long periods of time – no small feat.
In terms of activation, communicating with something so deep under water after possibly many years of sleep is also a difficult challenge. The pod will also need to send back health status information and the military will need to be able to communicate with it from a great distance.
How does the 5,000-pound pod then rise to the surface? The UFP 'riser' is designed to provide pressure-tolerant encapsulation while rapidly rising to the surface, thanks to its collar. The collar is made out of a material that is positively buoyant so it lifts the UFP to the surface.
Once at the surface, the riser must launch its 'payload,' which could be an airborne or waterborne drone … or lots of other mind-blowing options. Some options under consideration maximize the element of surprise. The payloads could deploy for a wide range of missions including deception, decoy, disruption, situational awareness and even rescue.
How will they be used?
Almost half of the world's oceans are more than 2.5 miles deep and this gives the U.S. military lots of opportunities for concealment and storage of the devices. The UFPs can lie dormant and undetected for very long periods of time.
Related: This huge combat tractor is the ultimate multitasker
Oceans cover about 71 percent of the world's surface. The Navy needs to operate over the vastness of these oceans, yet ever-shrinking budgets continue to limit the Navy's ability to develop and acquire weapons systems and platforms.
Unmanned systems are one way to help fill these coverage gaps and give the military the ability to strike far-flung targets, overcoming the distance limitations of UAVs on Navy vessels.  Instead, a UFP nearby would simply need to be activated.
What's next?
DARPA has been building and sea testing both the system's riser and communications components. In Phase 3, DARPA is running sea demonstrations of the UFPs communicating and rising to the surface, as well as deploying different payloads.

Screenshot from YouTube video.
Silent and invisible, Boeing's new laser cannon slays enemy drones by taking them down in under a minute.
The Compact Laser Weapons System (CLWS) can track down an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) and eliminate a threat.
Boeing just released a video of its Compact Laser Weapons System demonstration. In August, the laser took part in ultra cool Exercise Black Dart that focuses on cutting-edge tech to tackle hostile drones. The CLWS focused on the target drone's tail for 10 to 15 seconds, set it on fire, and destroyed it.
In the video, Boeing engineer Isaac Neal describes it as "a welding torch being put on target but from many hundreds of meters away. If you were on the receiving end of laser energy, you'd have no idea where it was coming from or what was even happening."
How does it work?
The CLWS is a two-kilowatt laser that focuses a directed energy beam at a target. It's so precise it can target a specific location on a drone.
The laser beam is silent and invisible. The system can identify and track air and ground targets as they are moving using a mid-wave infrared sensor and has a range of about 40 kilometers.
In the video, it takes the laser about 15 seconds to destroy a drone.
The laser is controlled with an Xbox 360–like controller connected to a laptop equipped with the targeting software. It takes just two warfighters to move the laser around the battle space and deliver focused firepower. The laser can be moved in a few boxes and set up within a few minutes.
Laser weapons provide another two key advantages — they have unlimited magazines provided there is power and the cost for each shot tends to be a lot lower.
Boeing has several laser systems underway from lasers like the CLWS that specifically target drones through lasers that target other threats like small fast attack boats, mortars, and rockets.
The High Energy Laser Mobile Demonstrator (HEL MD) is Boeing's laser mounted on a truck. It can destroy mortars while they are in mid-flight. Boeing demonstrated this laser last year – the CLWS is smaller and more portable.
Boeing expects the laser system to be ready for sale in the next year or two.
How would it be used?
The CLWS could be used to defeat drone threats in war zones, but also in the U.S. to protect and defend sensitive areas.
Drone use in the U.S. has proliferated from hobbyists to companies like Amazon.
Places like airports and government buildings continue to be targeted by drones. For example, in May this year a man was arrested for flying a drone at the White House.
Security experts are concerned that a drone could carry threats like biological or chemical weapons.
The CLWS could also be used to protect sensitive areas from the prying, spying eyes of drones.
Ballet dancer turned defense specialist Allison Barrie has traveled around the world covering the military, terrorism, weapons advancements and life on the front line. You can reach her at wargames@foxnews.com or follow her on Twitter @Allison_Barrie.

Spc. Ethan Esposito, Joint Multinational Training Command, fires his M4 carbine rifle during United States Army Europe's Best Warrior Competition in Grafenwoehr, Germany, July 31, 2012. (U.S. Army)
Fan of the M4A1 and M4? So is the U.S. Army. More of the popular weapons will be making their way into the hands of troops.
The Army has ordered $212 million worth of M4 and M4A1 carbines from Colt Defense and FN America.
A classic, the M4 combines lightweight mobility with effective firepower. The 5.56-mm carbine was designed to meet the U.S. military's high performance standards.
Related: Marine Corps' new helicopter completes its first flight
It's got a 14 and a half-inch barrel and with the stock extended the weapon is 33 inches long. The rate of fire is 700 to 950 RPM and the M4 has an effective range of about 600 meters, or 1,969 feet.
In 2013, the military placed a $77 million order with FN for 120,000 M4s. Attempts to replace the popular M4 with another weapon, however, have not been successful. Instead, the weapon has been improved through programs like M4s to M4A1s and the M4A1+ initiative.
The M4A1 has been popular with special operations warriors for about two decades.
Last year, the Army began modifying nearly half a million M4s to upgrade them to M4A1s. And these M4A1 carbine rifles have been rolling out in stages to soldiers. The Army is expected to finish the conversion of M4s to M4A1s by 2020.
Related: Navy taps Raytheon for sophisticated 'last chance' gun system
The conversions mean that the M4A1s weigh a bit more, but once modified they can offer a lot of advantages, such as in suppressing fire.
The barrel is heavier by a few ounces, but it provides better resistance to heat and it enables shooting longer strings of fire with accuracy.
The conversion also includes a shift from three-round burst to fully automatic. And good news for lefties, this version provides ambidextrous safety controls.
The M4A1+ program aims to further enhance the weapon.
The "plus" in M4A1 includes changes like an extended 12-inch forward Picatinny rail. This lets soldiers attach more accessory advantages like laser sights, optics, lights and pointers. The front and rear iron sights will be removable.
Related: Meet 'Viper' - the newest F-16 Fighter
M4A1+ is meant to have better accuracy - no farther than five inches from the target at 300 meters, or 984 feet, throughout the life of the barrel. The shift to a floating barrel will help to improve accuracy.
An advanced flash suppressor reduces firing signatures during both night and day missions. The "plus" also provides an optional sniper-style single-stage trigger.
The contract to supply the new M4s and M4A1s runs through 2020. The Army also recently ordered $84 million worth of M240 machine guns from FN America.
Shopping for a Colt?
For consumers, from now through Dec. 31, Colt is offering purchasers of a new Government Model or Defender pistol a free Colt Carry Kit. The kit includes one hundred dollars worth of Blade-Tech holster, additional magazine, and cap.
Ballet dancer turned defense specialist Allison Barrie has traveled around the world covering the military, terrorism, weapons advancements and life on the front line. You can reach her at wargames@foxnews.com or follow her on Twitter @Allison_Barrie.

(M600 screenshot from http://tracking-point.com)
If you're headed overseas to fight against Islamic State and Al Qaeda, then one company may have a cutting-edge rifle for you – at the cost of zero dollars.
Pflugerville, Texas-based TrackingPoint is offering 10 free M600 Service Rifles or M800 Designated Marksman Rifles to any U.S. organization that can legally bring them to the Middle East for the fight against terrorism.
"It's hard to sit back and watch what is happening over there. We want to do our part," explained the company's CEO John McHale, in a press release. "Ten guns doesn't sound like a lot but the dramatic leap in lethality is a great force multiplier. Those ten guns will feel like two hundred to the enemy."
"We firmly believe that the M600 SR and M800 DMR will save countless lives and enable our soldiers to dominate enemy combatants including terrorists," he added.
Precision Guided Rifles are designed to help overcome factors that can impact precision for shooters like recoil, direction and speed of wind, inclination, and temperature. They also work to help counteract common human errors like miscalculating range.
The M600 SR
TrackingPoint designed the M600 SR Squad Level Precision Guided NATO 5.56 Service Rifle to replace the M4A1.
The full length is 36.25 inches including the 16-inch barrel. The M600 weighs 12 pounds and has an operating time of two-and-a-half hours.
Related: Army takes aim with more M4 weapons
Whether you are an inexperienced or accomplished shooter, the rifle has an 87 percent first shot success rate out to 600 yards - a percentage 40 times higher than the first shot kill rate for an average warfighter, according to the company.
The rifle is also designed to eliminate targets moving as fast as 15 mph.
The M800 DMR
TrackingPoint describes this rifle as the "nuclear bomb of small arms."
The M800 Designated Marksman Rifle Squad-Level Precision guided 7.62 was designed to replace the M110 and M14.
This rifle weighs a bit more at 14 and-a-half pounds. The full length is 39 inches with the 18-inch barrel. The M800 also has an operating time of two and-a-half hours before needing to switch out the dual lithium-ion batteries.
Related: Navy taps Raytheon for sophisticated 'last chance' gun system
With the very first shot, the success rate on this rifle is 89 percent at out to 800 yards- based on the company's evaluation.
Extrapolating from the Army's 1999 White Feather study, TrackingPoint says this 89 percent success rate is about 33 times the success rate of first shots as kill shots by professional snipers.
The M800 DMR can hit targets moving as fast as 20 mph.
Both rifles incorporate the company's "RapidLok Target Acquisition." As a warfighter pulls the trigger, the target is automatically acquired and tracked. The range is also calculated and measured for velocity.  Accuracy is enhanced because all this work is accomplished by the time the trigger squeeze is completely.
Related: Meet 'Viper' - the newest F-16 Fighter
Both rifles also feature tech that enables accurate off-hand shots. The image is stabilized to the sort of image you would get with a supported gun rest.
Each rifle comes with a case that includes a charger, bi-pod, 20 round mag, bore guide and link pin. It also comes ready with two batteries.
The M600 SR retails for $9995, while the M800 DMR will be available for $15,995. If you're an interested civilian, TrackingPoint says the weapons are available to "select non-military U.S. individuals."
On Dec. 5, the company will begin shipping the free rifles to the chosen qualified U.S, citizens who can bring the guns into the fight against terrorism legally.

WASHINGTON –  The FBI's announcement that it mysteriously hacked into an iPhone is a public setback for Apple Inc., as consumers learned that they can't keep the government out of even an encrypted device that U.S. officials had claimed was impossible to crack. Apple, meanwhile, remains in the dark about how to restore the security of its flagship product.
The government said it was able to break into an iPhone used by a gunman in a mass shooting in California, but it didn't say how. That puzzled Apple software engineers — and outside experts — about how the FBI broke the digital locks on the phone without Apple's help. It also complicated Apple's job repairing flaws that jeopardize its software.
The Justice Department's announcement that it was dropping a legal fight to compel Apple to help it access the phone also took away any obvious legal avenues Apple might have used to learn how the FBI did it. Magistrate Judge Sheri Pym on Tuesday vacated her Feb. 16 order, which compelled Apple to assist the FBI in hacking their phone.
The Justice Department declined through a spokeswoman to comment Tuesday.
A few clues have emerged. A senior law enforcement official told The Associated Press that the FBI managed to defeat an Apple security feature that threatened to delete the phone's contents if the FBI failed to enter the correct passcode combination after 10 tries. That allowed the government to repeatedly and continuously test passcodes in what's known as a brute-force attack until the right code is entered and the phone is unlocked.
It wasn't clear how the FBI dealt with a related Apple security feature that introduces increasing time delays between guesses. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because this person was not authorized to discuss the technique publicly.
FBI Director James Comey has said with those features removed, the FBI could break into the phone in 26 minutes.
The FBI hacked into the iPhone used by gunman Syed Farook, who died with his wife in a gun battle with police after they killed 14 people in December in San Bernardino. The iPhone, issued to Farook by his employer, the county health department, was found in a vehicle the day after the shooting.
The FBI is reviewing information from the iPhone, and it is unclear whether anything useful can be found.
Apple said that the legal case to force its cooperation "should never have been brought," and it promised to increase the security of its products. CEO Tim Cook has said the Cupertino-based company is constantly trying to improve security for its users. The company declined to comment more Tuesday.
The FBI's announcement — even without revealing precise details — that it had hacked the iPhone was at odds with the government's firm recommendations for nearly two decades that security researchers always work cooperatively and confidentially with software manufacturers before revealing that a product might be susceptible to hackers.
The aim is to ensure that American consumers stay as safe online as possible and prevent premature disclosures that might damage a U.S. company or the economy.
As far back as 2002, the Homeland Security Department ran a working group that included leading technology industry executives to advise the president on how to keep confidential discoveries by independent researchers that a company's software could be hacked until it was already fixed. Even now, the Commerce Department has been trying to fine-tune those rules. The next meeting of a conference on the subject is April 8 in Chicago and it's unclear how the FBI's behavior in the current case might influence the government's fragile relationship with technology companies or researchers.
The industry's rules are not legally binding, but the government's top intelligence agency said in 2014 that such vulnerabilities should be reported to companies and the Obama administration put forward an interagency process to do so.
"When federal agencies discover a new vulnerability in commercial and open source software — a so-called 'zero day' vulnerability because the developers of the vulnerable software have had zero days to fix it — it is in the national interest to responsibly disclose the vulnerability rather than to hold it for an investigative or intelligence purpose," the Office of the Director of National Intelligence said in a statement in April 2014.
The statement recommended generally divulging such flaws to manufacturers "unless there is a clear national security or law enforcement need."
Last week a team from Johns Hopkins University said it had found a security bug in Apple's iMessage service that would allow hackers under certain circumstances to decrypt some text messages. The team reported its findings to Apple in November and published an academic paper after Apple fixed it.
"That's the way the research community handles the situation. And that's appropriate," said Susan Landau, professor of cybersecurity policy at Worcester Polytechnic Institute. She said it was acceptable for the government to find a way to unlock the phone but said it should reveal its method to Apple.
Mobile phones are frequently used to improve cybersecurity, for example, as a place to send a backup code to access a website or authenticate a user.
The chief technologist at the Center for Democracy and Technology, Joseph Lorenzo Hall, said keeping details secret about a flaw affecting millions of iPhone users "is exactly opposite the disclosure practices of the security research community. The FBI and Apple have a common goal here: to keep people safe and secure. This is the FBI prioritizing an investigation over the interests of hundreds of millions of people worldwide."

Courtney Stodden and Doug Hutchison in 2012.
(Courtney Stodden/Twitter)
Courtney Stodden and Doug Hutchison leaving Arclight after a movie and she's wearing her typical uniform of a tiny dress and stiletto heels.
(X17online.com)
Courtney Stodden is officially off the market. So who's her new man?
Her old man.
That's right -- it's her estranged husband, Doug Hutchison. The controversial couple is back together again and plan to renew their vows by the end of the year, Courtney -- and her mom -- confirmed to FOX411.
"Courtney realized just how much love she really had for Doug," Stodden's momager Krista Keller told FOX411. "They really love each other and wanted to be together."
"@SashaFB: Is it true @CourtneyStodden? Are you and Doug engaged?!" It's true, hun??????
— Courtney Stodden (@CourtneyStodden) August 11, 2014
Stodden told FOX411 last November that the reason for her legal separation from Hutchison was because of their age difference, and the 19-year-old's wish to just "be 19."
"Doug and I decided to separate and end our marriage because of the obvious," Stodden told FOX411. "Our age gap of 34 years.
"Right now I'm just looking to have fun and to grow into who I am as a woman and be single and independent and build my own foundation," she said then. "I'm just my taking the time to be me and be single and be 19 and to try and be as much as a normal 19 year old as I possibly can."
But Keller says her daughter has had time to "experience other men" during their break and she now "want[s] to be with her original choice, her husband."
Stodden was 16 when she married "Lost" actor then 51-year-old Hutchison meaning Keller had to sign off on her daughter's marriage certificate.
"When I signed that [marriage certificate], I think moms sometimes know their daughters and I'm very very happy for them that she's made this choice again for herself," said Keller.
You can find Sasha Savitsky on Twitter @SashaFB.

This photo shows an F-35 Lightning II jet. Lockheed Martin is making different variations of the plane for each branch of the service.
(Lockheed Martin)
The development of the ballyhooed F-35 fighter jet faces new delays and is over budget, a new report from the Government Accountability Office has found.  The F-35s are "fifth-generation" fighter jets, and are designed to be the U.S. military's new primary fighter aircraft. The Department of Defense plans to buy 2,457 of the planes between now and 2037, at a total cost of more than a trillion dollars including development and maintenance costs. While the first F-35s are scheduled to be fully operational by July 2015, the GAO report warns that they may not be.  "Persistent software problems have slowed progress… capabilities expected by the Marine Corps in July 2015 will not likely be delivered on time, and could be delayed as much as 13 months," the report reads.  But a spokesman for Lockheed Martin, which is making the planes, told FoxNews.com that they will meet the schedule.  "Lockheed Martin remains confident we will complete flight testing of the software required for Marine Corps Initial Operational Capability this year," spokesman Michael Rein said.  Initially, the planes were also expected to be operational by 2012. The program has also seen cost overruns. In inflation-adjusted dollars, the cost of F-35 development has risen from an estimated $306 billion in 2001 to an estimated $390 billion now.  And while the cost increased, the military also reduced the requirements for the planes, accepting longer takeoff distances and a reduced combat radius (the furthest point that the plane can effectively go to and patrol.)  Given that, some security experts said the latest software-based delays did not surprise them.  "These are nothing new. This aircraft has been in trouble both with cost and performance since the start," Anthony Cordesman of the Center for Strategic and International Studies told FoxNews.com.  Cordesman noted that the cost overruns come at the expense of other military priorities.  "To get the money the Air Force has had to cut active forces. This aircraft is so expensive that it basically dominates the entire procurement budget," he said.  Part of the blame may lie with trying to pack every feature possible into one airplane.  "People keep adding new features and requirements, and trying to make one aircraft do the job of three and trying to simultaneously solve every problem in attack aviation at once," Cordesman said.  But other experts said the significance of the GAO report has been overblown and that the F-35 will be an excellent aircraft.  "Software is not like a physical piece that needs repair – software is never finished, it's constantly upgraded," Robbin Laird, who has served as a consultant to the Marine Corps and Air Force and started the website Second Line of Defense, told FoxNews.com  Long-term cost and effectiveness is more important than cost-overruns in the development phase, he added.  "The GAO is missing the whole point. This is a 30-year program, and the long term cost of this aircraft and sustainability is going to be just fine. And our major allies have bought into it. Why would they buy it if they thought it was a dog?"  The GAO report also contained some positive news.  "Critical learning has taken place and manufacturing efficiency has improved acquisition cost and schedule estimates have remained relatively stable," it said.  Regardless of the wisdom of the F-35 project, Cordesman said that it is the only option at this point.  "I think all of us are skeptical [if it was worth it] but the problem is that the Air Force doesn't have other options at this point," Cordesman said.  Cordesman and other experts said that a lesson for next time is that having multiple parts of the military – in this case the Air Force, Navy and the Marine Corps – all working on the same plane may not be a good idea.  "It's a lesson in the dangers of joint-ness. This aircraft tends to do too many different things for too many different people," Ben Friedman, research fellow in defense at the CATO Institute, told FoxNews.com.  He added that the problems with the plane are "emblematic" of the need to cut military spending.  "It goes to show that there's a lot of misallocation of resources and waste in the military," Freidman said.  But Cordesman argues that anyone who thinks the cost overruns are a reason for cutting military spending are misguided.  "Really?" he asked rhetorically. "Which of our 3 most important friends right now -- Russia, Iran or North Korea – are the best reason for cutting military spending?"

(U.S. Air Force)
Boeing's X-37B space plane broke its endurance record in orbit last month when it surpassed 470 days.
The U.S. Air Force launched the Orbital Test Vehicle 3 in December 2012 on a classified mission. The X-37B is a fourth of the size of NASA's shuttle and is collecting data for the U.S. military. Operations for the mission are run by the 3rd Space Experimentation Squadron at Schriever Air Force Base, Col.
The X-37B was launched into orbit aboard the Atlas 5 rocket from a pad at the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, Fla. It will return to Vandenberg Air Force Base, Calif., at an undisclosed date.
The record for the longest space flight had been set by the previous mission by the X-37B for the OTV-2 that remained in orbit for 469 days. The first flight for OTV-1 took place in 2010 and lasted 225 days.
The X-37B program is overseen by the Air Force Rapid Capabilities Office. The U.S. military continues to expand space responsibilities as NASA's budget shrinks.

The longtime hunt for the ultimate military hybrid – part helicopter, part airplane – may finally be over. Narrowed down to a final four contenders, the Phantom Swift has come out of the gate looking strong with a smart design and the coolest name.
Made by Boeing, the aircraft giant's strange design incorporates fans on both the fuselage and wingtips that provide efficient vertical lift; the pair in the fuselage are then covered when it shifts into cruise mode. Smaller ducted fans on the wingtips provide forward thrust and enhanced lift and control in hover mode.
Boeing is one of four teams to receive a $17 million contract from the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, the fearless innovation arm of the military that is better known as DARPA. The agency hopes the proposed "VTOL X-Plane" will give the military unprecedented capabilities.
The VTOL X plane is basically a helicopter mashed up with an airplane. Helicopters, with the ability to take off and land without an airstrip -- hence VTOL, or Vertical TakeOff and Landing -- give the military access to areas that fixed-wing aircraft can't reach. But fixed-wing aircraft provide better speed and range.
The X-Plane project aims to provide all of these in one aircraft that can fly as fast as 460 miles per hour, take off and land vertically and hover efficiently, all while hauling crates of cargo.

NEW YORK –  Maybe she'll be the next Bachelorette. Maybe she'll date George Clooney. Right now, the world is 19-year-old Courtney Stodden's oyster after she announced she and her 53-year-old husband Doug Hutchison are going their separate ways.
"Doug and I decided to separate and end our marriage because of the obvious," Stodden told FOX411. "Our age gap of 34-years."
Stodden shot into the spotlight when the then 16-year-old married "Lost" actor 51-year-old Doug Hutchinson in 2011. Three years and several reality shows later, the controversial couple has split despite calling each other "soul mates."
"I know I was quoted a couple years ago saying that age is just a number but I mean I guess to some people it isn't just a number," she said. "Our 34-year age difference definitely played a huge major role in [our split]."
Since their marriage began, Stodden hadn't spent more than 24 hours away from her hubby and co-manager. That was until she recently got back from competing on Big Brother UK where the busty blond got her first taste of freedom.

The Navy's new humanoid robots can detect fires on a ship, withstand extreme heat up to 500 degrees, and fight the fire shoulder to shoulder with human firefighters.
Designed to fight shipboard fires at sea, the Shipboard Autonomous Firefighting Robot, known as SAFFiR, is a human-sized robot. Under direction and funding from the Office of Naval Research, Naval Research Laboratory researchers have been working with university researchers to develop the tech.
SAFFiR is meant to move autonomously throughout a ship, learn its layout and patrol for structural problems. The robot will be able to interact with the sailors onboard, and take on many of their dangerous firefighting tasks.
Recently at the LASR facility, a controlled multi-environment and state-of-the-art labs that tests out ideas before fielding them, the humanoid robots demonstrated just what they can do.
Virginia Tech and Penn students demonstrated their complex motion, agility, and ability to walk over natural and manmade terrain as well as simulated shipboard pitch and roll conditions.

After Apollo 12 left lunar orbit on November 24, 1969, this image of the moon was taken from the command module.
A moon rock brought to Earth by Apollo 11, humans' first landing on the moon in July 1969, floats aboard the International Space Station.
(Reuters/NASA)
Part three in an exclusive, five-part series exploring how America could once again put men on the moon.
What if I told you there was a relatively easy way to get Americans back on the moon?
To build a program to take humans back to the moon takes infrastructure and effort -- but a combination of NASA know-how and private enterprise could make it possible in the next few years.
NASA has made significant progress on Orion, a capsule like the Apollo-era ones that carried men to the moon in the '60s and '70s. It still has a ways to go, but with proper funding a flight in the next three or four years is doable.
The biggest obstacle is the lack of a rocket, called a super heavy launch vehicle, to lift it off the planet. NASA is working on one, called the Space Launch System, but the agency is constrained by its budget and the likelihood of it flying in that time frame is slim.
SubHeading Special Series: Return to the moon
Monday: It's time to return
It would be truly amazing, and a huge milestone in human history.
Tuesday: China's moon rover a wake-up call
Why shouldn't the U.S. continue to lead in space exploration?
Wednesday: Return to the moon in four years
What if I told you there was an easy way to get Americans back on the moon?
Thursday: How America can lead the world back
China can choose either to compete or join us.
Friday: Why now is the time for a moon base
The U.S. must lead the world in allowing humans to break the bonds that hold us to our Earth.

SubHeading The lovely Courtney Stodden
Courtney's not one to shy away from the spotlight.
"Courtney Stodden was born to be a porn star," according to Vivid honcho Steven Hirsch.
Hirsch is hoping to get the newly single 19-year-old blonde in work with Vivid in some way, he told Fishwrapper.
"There is no question that she would be a huge star as she exudes sexuality. ... I would love to sign her to a contract and now that she's going to be single, maybe she'd be interested. If not, she would be a great host for us on VividTV [our cable network] until she felt fully comfortable," he added.
He said Stodden's surgically enhanced figure would make her an excellent adult film star. He also stated that she stands to make a lot of money in the adult entertainment world.
"A successful porn star can make several hundred thousand dollars a year. Courtney would surely make more."

Weeks after the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, a new analysis of satellite data suggests that the plane went down in the southern Indian Ocean, Malaysia Prime Minister Najib Razak said Monday.
But with the plane's exact location still unknown and the fate of the 239 passengers unclear, many are combing back through the data gathered in the hunt for the passenger plane. One strange bit of evidence that turned up almost immediately sticks out: claims by relatives that they were able to place calls to the cell phones of loved ones and even reach the voicemail in-boxes of the missing.
Unfortunately, a ringing cellphone doesn't say anything about the party on the other end, explained Jeff Kagan, a well-known cellular industry analyst.
"We are used to the landline world. When you dial a number and hear ringing, it is ringing on the other end," he told FoxNews.com via email.
"However wireless is different."

SubHeading The lovely Courtney Stodden
Courtney's not one to shy away from the spotlight.
Courtney Stodden wants to live the single life.
The blonde bombshell's rep confirmed that she and 53-year-old husband Doug Hutchison have legally separated, and they plan to divorce soon.
"After two and a half years of marriage, Courtney and Doug have decided to become legally separated," her rep told the HollywoodLife.com. "Courtney was married at a young age. Now, at 19, she's interested in exploring life as an unmarried single young adult – with the freedom to explore her independence."
PHOTOS: Courtney Stodden's sexiest snapshots
But --in a strange twist-- the two won't be cutting all ties, her rep explained. Hutchison will manage Stodden's career, and they will continue to live in the same house.

Are we less than two years away from tactical vehicles that both drive and fly?
The Real Off Road is around the bend for the US military… Two of the world's top defense innovators, DARPA and Skunk Works, are determined to deliver in 2015.
The Transformer TX drives like a military ground vehicle and rapidly transforms to fly like a helicopter and can transform back again.
And like Transformers, these vehicles can be operated by humans or can even fly or drive themselves.
Or even fly warfighters into a war zone carrying a vehicle, drop them and the vehicle off and fly back to base on autopilot.

Apple is apparently working on various music-related products meant to counter the effect of dropping download sales, with the company currently being rumored to consider both launching a Spotify-like service, but also a standalone iTunes application for Android. Billboard reports that Apple has opened exploratory talks with senior label executives about launching such services, although nothing is official just yet.
The discussions with labels are at a very early stage, according to sources familiar with the matter. ""They are feeling out some people at labels on thoughts about transitioning its customers from iTunes proper to a streaming service," a major label source said. "So when you buy a song for $1.29, and you put it in your library, iTunes might send an e-mail pointing out that for a total of, say, $8 a month you can access that song plus all the music in the iTunes store. It's all in the 'what if' stage."
Apple is considering other means to making downloads more popular, including releasing albums on iTunes before the CDs hit the market, but also making its digital store easier to shop.
Data from Nielsen SoundScan shows that U.S. digital album sales are down 13 percent for the week ended March 9, while digital track sales are down 11 percent from last year. Meanwhile, revenue for streaming services increased. Spotify, Pandora and YouTube generated $1.4 billion in subscription, advertising and licensing revenues in the U.S. last year, a 39 percent increase from 2012, with downloads dropping 3.2 percent to $2.9 billion, according to data from the Record Industry Association of America (RIAA). Similarly, music streaming revenue grew 51 percent worldwide last year, while downloads dropped 2.1 percent, according to the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI).
Steve Jobs famously said that Apple wasn't considering making an iTunes app available to Android, as he didn't see any advantage "except to make users happy," and that he didn't "want to make Android users happy." However, Tim Cook may have a different opinion about Apple developing apps for Android, with the CEO saying last year that Apple wouldn't have any "religious issue with doing that. If we thought it made sense for us to do that, we would do that."

This photo provided by Galerie Westlicht in Vienna shows a Hasselblad 500 camera which was part of the equipment carried by the 1971 Apollo 15 mission -- and the only camera ever bought back from the moon. It was put on auction Saturday, March 22, 2014 and was sold for nearly $760,000 US. Westlicht identifies the new owner as Japanese businessman Terukazu Fujisawa. It says the owner of an electronics chain placed his winning bid of 550,000 euros by phone.
(AP Photo/Galerie Westlicht)
VIENNA –  It was put on auction as the only camera that made it to the moon and back. And it had its price -- nearly $760,000.
The Hasselblad 500 sold over the weekend is described by Vienna auctioneers Galerie Westlicht as part of the equipment carried by the 1971 Apollo 15 mission -- and the only camera ever bought back from the moon. It says the others were left behind to make room for mineral samples.
Galerie Westlicht identifies the new owner as Japanese businessman Terukazu Fujisawa. It says the owner of an electronics chain placed his winning bid of 550,000 euros by phone. Bidding started Saturday at 80,000 euros -- just over $110,000.

An artist's concept of one type of implantable sensor to be used as a novel interface technology to control an artifical limb.
An artists concept of a flat interface nerve electrode (FINE), one type of implantable control for artificial limbs.
Big breakthroughs may restore a sense of touch to U.S. military personnel who have lost limbs in service of the country.
U.S. forces suffered 6,144 traumatic amputations between 2000 and 2011, according to research conducted by the Armed Forces Health Surveillance Center -- and more than 2,000 of these were major amputations involving the loss of a hand, foot or more.
Junior enlisted Army and Marine Corps members in combat-specific positions have experienced the most of these amputations. Increased frequency and intensity of ground combat operations in Iraq and Afghanistan are often cited for the increase.
'Advances are already being made available to injured warfighters in clinical settings.'
- DARPA program director Jack Judy
There have been tremendous advances in prosthetic limbs in recent years but few ways to interface tissue with tech, meaning those innovations can't be fully exploited.
Could that all be changing?

For almost two decades, the U.S. Army Research Laboratory has been developing materials to protect ground vehicles and dismounted soldiers from lasers, notably new material that would let natural light through but block any laser light.
Today's lasers can disorient and even wound soldiers, inflicting permanent blindness, and they can easily blind crucial defense cameras. Picture an armored vehicle travelling through an urban environment: With limited vision, the soldiers in it would rely on the vehicle's cameras as eyes on the surrounding streets.
And laser threats are growing daily, said ARL laser protection team leader Andy Mott.
"Lasers of varying pulse width and wavelength are being developed every day," Mott said. "We develop protection for electronic sensors of the future as well as the sighting systems of today."
To keep those eyes protected -- both human and electronic -- the Army set about developing new approaches to eye protection.

The "Taste The Stars" menu at the Four Seasons Resort in Costa Rica was developed with former NASA astronaut Franklin Chang Diaz. The dinner includes real meteorite sauce.
(Four Seasons Resort Costa Rica)
Franklin Chang Diaz, seen onboard the space shuttle Columbia in 1996, prepares a meal while floating weightless in space.
A former NASA astronaut has brought a taste of space down to Earth while elevating the concept of space food to new heights.
"The food I ate in space was not what you would call 'fine dining,'" Franklin Chang Diaz, a record-setting, seven-time shuttle mission specialist, observed. "In fact, eating was a challenge altogether."
"But what if there was a way to experience the wonder of space without ever leaving Earth?" he proposed. "What if we could give new meaning to the phrase 'dining under the stars'?"  [Video: Four Seasons' "Taste The Stars"]
Chang Diaz recently set out to answer those questions by working with the chefs at the Four Seasons Resort in his home country of Costa Rica. By blending astronomy with molecular gastronomy, they succeeded in creating a multi-course, space-influenced dinner, called "Taste the Stars."
[pullquote]

SubHeading Sneak Peek: Beach Babe Blake Lively
The starlet goes from 'Gossip Girl' to surfer girl in the June issue of 'Vogue.'
"Gossip Girl" actress Blake Lively is under siege from hackers who have released more than 20 photos of who they claim is the 23-year-old actress.
Lively's reps immediately went on the offensive after four pictures allegedly featuring the star's bare body were leaked, saying that the controversial photographs were fake and threatening legal action against any outlet who published the pictures with the implication that they were Lively.
However, the adamant denial seemed only to incite at least one hacker, who then released an additional 17 salacious snaps with this taunt:
"Oh, yes, Blake's rep.These are totally fake. We really, really believe you. Want moar?"
But could Lively's saga be part of a bigger picture? Could this all be the work of a ring of hackers that were being investigated by the FBI less than two months ago? The feds reportedly met with Disney star Vanessa Hudgens back in March to ascertain how her Gmail was hacked. It was then revealed that she was just one of more than 50 celebrities including Jessica Alba, Scarlett Johansson, Christina Aguilera and Miley Cyrus, to have been targeted by the ring.

The world's only bionic eyes -- implants that can bring sight to the blind -- keep getting better.
Created by Second Sight Medical Products and recently approved by the FDA, the Argus II Retinal Prosthesis System uses an implanted camera and computer to convert the world at large into electronic signals, enabling the brain to see.
It's the first implanted device that can provide sight to people 25 and older who have lost their vision from degenerative eye diseases like macular degeneration and retinitis pigmentosa.
And results just published in the latest British Journal of Ophthalmology indicate they're even better than previously thought: Argus II enabled the 21 blind patients in a new study to locate and identify objects and people -- and even read.
About 75 percent of blind patients given these new bionic eyes were able to correctly identify single letters. More than half of those with Argus II were able to read four-letter words.

The new iPad features a sharper screen and a faster processor. Apple says the new display will be even sharper than the high-definition television set in the living room.
Though everyone's talking about the silly rumored gold color for the iPhone 5S, there are some real Apple news stories worth discussing. You know, rumors that might not result in a gaudier iPhone. Here is a recap of the latest Apple gossip.
iOS may get 3D Gestures: The US Patent and Trademark Office has published a new Apple patent detailing a possible iOS interface that would let you "generate and manipulate 3D objects using 3D gesture inputs." AppleInsider has a detailed report on the tech (here's a link to the official patent), but basically, you could design 3D objects more easily on the iPad, it appears.
RELATED: Internet out at home? Here's how to get Wi-Fi access anywhere at any time
The patent talks about a device that can figure out precisely where your fingers are even if they are above the screen through the capacitive touchscreen and proximity sensors built into the display. By pinching and using other common gestures, you could manipulate a 2D object onscreen, pulling and forming the object by doing pulling or lifting gestures away from the screen of the tablet/phone.
If a Jedi wanted to sculpt clay, it would probably be something like what Apple is describing here. There is, of course, no indication when, or if, this technology will appear in an iOS device.

Noah's Ark under contruction with its master builder, Noah (portrayed by Russel Crowe), and his son in the new Paramount Pictures film "Noah."
(Paramount Pictures Corp.)
In Darren Aronofksy's forthcoming epic "Noah," the vessel by which the biblical hero saves himself, his family, and pairs of animals from the apocalyptic flood appears like a huge shipping container standing some 50 feet tall and 500 feet long.
The design was inspired by "going back to what God tells Noah in the Bible," Aronofksy said in a behind-the-scenes featurette recently released by Paramount.
The problem is, Russell Crowe's Noah might have gotten the wrong instruction manual.
Photos: Noah's Ark in its Many Forms
[pullquote]

FILE - This Feb. 19. 2010 file photo provided by NASA shows the International Space Station with Earth's horizon as a backdrop. Several power systems have been shut down aboard the International Space Station after a cooling system malfunctioned. NASA says in a posting on its website that one of two cooling loops aboard the space station was shut down Saturday, July 31, 2010. A module that pumps ammonia coolant to prevent equipment from overheating was still shut down early Sunday, Aug. 1. (AP Photo/NASA, File)
(AP Photo/NASA, File)
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. –  A pair of spacewalking cosmonauts installed a new telescope mount on the International Space Station on Thursday despite a flaw in the device.
Russians Fyodor Yurchikhin and Aleksandr Misurkin -- making their second spacewalk in under a week -- initially were told to give up trying to plug in the 6-foot platform for a yet-to-be-launched telescope.
But after more than an hour of discussion at Russian Mission Control outside Moscow, the decision was reversed and the cosmonauts installed it.
Yurchikhin and Misurkin reported that the base of the platform appeared to be misaligned because it wasn't assembled properly on the ground. The problem could prevent the future telescope from pointing in the right direction.
"We cannot spend a lot of time here," one of the cosmonauts complained as they struggled with the equipment.

This NASA graphic shows the universe as it evolved from the big bang to now. Goddard scientists believe that the universe expanded from subatomic scales to the astronomical in a fraction of a second after its birth.
(NASA/WMAP)
Gravitational waves from inflation generate a faint but distinctive twisting pattern in the polarization of the cosmic microwave background, known as a "curl" or B-mode pattern.  For the density fluctuations that generate most of the polarization of the CMB, this part of the primordial pattern is exactly zero. Shown here is the actual B-mode pattern observed with the BICEP2 telescope, which is consistent with the pattern predicted for primordial gravitational waves. The line segments show the polarization strength and orientation at different spots on the sky. The red and blue shading shows the degree of clockwise and anti-clockwise twisting of this B-mode pattern.
(BICEP2 Collaboration)
The tiny temperature fluctuations of the cosmic microwave background (shown here as color) trace primordial density fluctuations in the early universe that seeded the later growth of galaxies. These fluctuations produce a pattern of polarization in the CMB that has no twisting to it. Gravitational waves from inflation are expected to produce much a fainter pattern that includes twisting ("B-mode") polarization, consistent with the pattern observed by BICEP2, which is shown here as black lines. The line segments show the polarization strength and orientation at different spots on the sky.
(BICEP2 Collaboration)
Astronomers have discovered what they believe is the first direct evidence of the astonishing expansion of the universe in the instant following the Big Bang -- the scientific explanation for the birth of the universe some 13.8 billion years ago.
Scientists believe that the universe exploded from a tiny speck and hurled itself out in all directions in the fraction of a second that followed, beginning just 10 to the minus 35 seconds (roughly one trillionth of a trillionth of a trillionth of a second) after the universe's birth. Matter ultimately coalesced hundreds of millions of years later into planets, stars, and ultimately us.
And like ripples from a ball kicked into a pond, that Big Bang-fueled expansion caused ripples in the ancient light from that event, light which remains imprinted in the skies in a leftover glow called the cosmic microwave background.
Scientists still don't know who kicked the ball.
But if confirmed, the newfound ripples would be amazing proof of what has long been mere theory about what happened in those first millionths of a second.

Astronaut and Lunar Module pilot Buzz Aldrin is pictured during the Apollo 11 extravehicular activity on the moon, in this July 29, 1969 photograph.
(Reuters/NASA)
United States astronaut Buzz Aldrin salutes the American flag on the surface of the Moon after he and fellow astronaut Neil Armstrong became the first men to land on the Moon during the Apollo 11 space mission July 20, 1969.
(Reuters/NASA)
Part five in an exclusive, five-part series exploring how America could once again put men on the moon.
The United States has ended two World Wars, pioneered a computer revolution and embarked on the greatest adventure to date by having humans walk on the moon. I want to see us continue in this great leadership role. We as a nation and the world as a whole are better for it.
The next great challenge is a familiar one: The U.S. must lead the world in allowing humans to break the bonds that hold us to our Earth.
If we don't rise to this challenge, this century may be known as the Chinese Century rather than the second century of America. I have no problem with other countries being major contributors; I just want us to lead.
SubHeading Special Series: Return to the moon
Monday: It's time to return
It would be truly amazing, and a huge milestone in human history.
Tuesday: China's moon rover a wake-up call
Why shouldn't the U.S. continue to lead in space exploration?
Wednesday: Return to the moon in four years
What if I told you there was an easy way to get Americans back on the moon?
Thursday: How America can lead the world back
China can choose either to compete or join us.
Friday: Why now is the time for a moon base
The U.S. must lead the world in allowing humans to break the bonds that hold us to our Earth.
The development of a lunar base could be a catalyst for lowering our launch cost to space and accelerating the development of automation and robotics. And there are probably countless spinoffs that I did not capture.

Astronaut Karen Nyberg assists astronaut Luca Parmitano to remove his space suit aboard the International Space Station after the aborted spacewalk on Tuesday, July 16, 2013.
(AP Photo/NASA)
Astronaut Luca Parmitano, who nearly drowned during a spacewalk in July 2013,  participates in a spacesuit fit check in the Space Station Airlock Test Article (SSATA) of the Crew Systems Laboratory at NASA's Johnson Space Center in Houston.
(AP Photo/NASA, Lauren Harnett)
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. –  The Italian astronaut who nearly drowned in his helmet during a spacewalk last month is sharing more details about the terrifying experience, revealing how he felt all alone and frantically tried to come up with a plan to save himself.
Luca Parmitano wrote in his online blog, posted Tuesday, that he could no longer see as the water sloshed around in his helmet outside the International Space Station.
"But worse than that, the water covers my nose -- a really awful sensation that I make worse by my vain attempts to move the water by shaking my head," the former test pilot wrote. "By now, the upper part of the helmet is full of water and I can't even be sure that the next time I breathe I will fill my lungs with air and not liquid."
Parmitano, 36, a major in the Italian Air Force making just his second spacewalk, wasn't sure which direction to head to reach the station's hatch. He tried to contact his spacewalking partner, American Christopher Cassidy, and Mission Control. Their voices grew faint, and no one could hear him.
[pullquote]

March 6, 2014: Dorian S. Nakamoto, the man that Newsweek claims is the founder of Bitcoin, denies he had anything to do with it and says he had never even heard of the digital currency until his son told him he had been contacted by a reporter three weeks ago.
(AP Photo/Damian Dovarganes)
Bitcoin tokens seen in Sandy, Utah.
(AP Photo/Rick Bowmer)
Dorian S. Nakamoto, a 64-year-old Japanese-American thrust into the spotlight by a Newsweek cover story, is vehemently denying the accuracy of the story identifying him as the brains behind the bits.
"Newsweek's false report has been the source of a great deal of confusion and stress for myself, my 93-year-old mother, my siblings, and their families," wrote Nakamoto in a statement released Monday by Reuters over Twitter. "I did not create, invent or otherwise work on Bitcoin. I unconditionally deny the Newsweek report."
Widely circulated stories have said in the past that a genius kid in Tokyo came up with the concept of the currency, a digital form of money that has no physical form and lacks any ties to a country. Bitcoin's adoption has been a runaway success, as far as currencies go, with everyone from football teams to food shops announcing plans to accept the digital currency, although the value of the currency has seen dramatic ups and downs.
[pullquote]
Newsweek outed Nakamoto last week, in a cover story by Leah McGrath Goodman.

NASA astronaut Chirs Cassidy spied this object floating past the International Space Station.
It's an "identified flying object."
On Monday morning, 220 or so miles about the Earth, NASA astronaut Chris Cassidy looked out the window to see a mysterious object drifting by.
Cassidy reached out to Mission Control about the strange item, which was drifting lazily in the emptiness of space.
Unidentified object floating outside #ISS? Sort of...
— NASA Astronauts (@NASA_Astronauts) August 19, 2013

Meteoric iron beads (center) are pictured between ancient Egyptian necklaces that are strung with tube-shaped lapis lazuli (blue), carnelian (brownish/red), agate, and gold beads.
(UCL Petrie Museum/Rob Eagle)
Ancient Egyptian beads found in a 5,000-year-old tomb were made from iron meteorites that fell to Earth from space, according to a new study. The beads, which are the oldest known iron artifacts in the world, were crafted roughly 2,000 years before Egypt's Iron Age.
In 1911, nine tube-shaped beads were excavated from an ancient cemetery near the village of el-Gerzeh, which is located about 3,100 miles south of Cairo, said study lead author Thilo Rehren, a professor at UCL Qatar, a Western Asian outpost of the University College London's Institute of Archaeology. The tomb dates back to approximately 3200 B.C., the researchers said.
Inside the tomb, which belonged to a teenage boy, the iron beads were strung together into a necklace alongside other exotic materials, including gold and gemstones. Early tests of the beads' composition revealed curiously high concentrations of nickel, a telltale signature of iron meteorites. [See Photos of the Egyptian Beads & Other Meteorite Jewels]
"Even 100 years ago, [the beads] attracted attention as being something strange," Rehren told LiveScience.
But without definitive proof of the beads' cosmic origins, questions persisted over whether similar amounts of nickel could be present in human-made iron. By scanning the iron beads with beams of neutrons and gamma rays, the researchers found high concentrations of cobalt, phosphorous and germanium; these elements were present at levels that only occur in iron meteorites.

A frame from the film "Seabiscuit," which tells the tale of the legendary racehorse.
(Universal Studios)
Who would win a race between Secretariat, Seabiscuit and Man 'o War?
Those champion racehorses were separated by decades, but thanks to advances in science, it's now possible to extract DNA from their remains, clone them, and bring exact copies of the legendary champions back to life.
And that scenario may someday be possible, thanks to a landmark ruling in Texas last week, in which U.S. District Judge Mary Lou Robinson ordered the American Quarter Horse Association -- the world's largest horse breeding and registry organization -- to allow cloned horses.
"Theoretically, could they clone the great American quarter horses? Sure, and that's part of what the opposition is," Tom Persechino, a spokesman for the AQHA, told FoxNews.com. "It's not strictly for breeding purposes."
To hear Jason Abraham, who won the lawsuit on Aug. 14, cloning is simply the latest in a long line of advances, from transfer of embryos to the use of frozen sperm to intracytoplasmic sperm injection -- all techniques that let breeders avoid genetic dead-ends and preserve valued traits.
'What made Secretariat so stunning was that he was a freak of nature, an alignment of genes so superb as to be the closest thing to perfection we are likely to ever see.'
- Laura Hillenbrand, author of the bestseller 'Seabiscuit'

Photo of fossilized ambergris, or whale poop, found in Italy.
(Federico Famiani)
Clumps of squid beaks sticking out of clay in Italy's Umbrian badlands may be the first fossilized ambergris, or whale poo, ever found.
Ambergris is a fatty, waxy-looking substance. Scientists believe sperm whales the largest toothed predator on Earth secrete ambergris inside their digestive tracts to protect themselves from sharp objects, like giant squid beaks and fish bones and teeth. And contrary to urban legend, ambergris is actually whale poo, not vomit. Sought after by perfume makers, aged ambergris is like umami for the nose, adding musky depth to scents.
Even though scientists have discovered fossilized feces, called coprolites, from dinosaurs, ichthyosaurs, mammoths and sharks, no one has reported finding ancient ambergris.
"These structures, derived from the original fossil ambergris masses, represent the first recovery on a global scale, since nothing like [it] has been described before in the scientific literature," lead study author Angela Baldanza, a sedimentary geologist at the University of Perugia in Italy, said in an email interview.
Baldanza and her colleagues discovered the fossil ambergris in September 2011, while surveying the remains of a Pleistocene ocean in southwestern Umbria in central Italy. The region is well known for sperm whale fossils, though few have been found near the site of the fossil ambergris, Baldanza said. [Image Gallery: Fantastic Fossils]

Harry Potter's head is all that's visibile after he dons an invisibility cloak in a movie based on the popular children's books. But scientists are growing closer to making them a reality.
(Warner Bros)
Yaroslav Urzhumov holding an invisibility cloak created using a 3D printer.
(Duke University Photography)
Invisibility cloaks made of plastic can now be created at home using 3D printers, researchers show.
The first clues that cloaking devices might one day become more than science fiction, a la "Star Trek" began emerging seven or so years ago. Since then researchers have made such cloaks a reality by smoothly guiding rays of electromagnetic radiation such as microwave beams completely around objects so they proceed along their original trajectory as if nothing were there.
The first working invisibility cloaks were demonstrated using complex lab experiments. They can now, in principle, get made at home using 3D printers.
[pullquote]
"I would argue that essentially anyone who can spend a couple thousand dollars on a non-industry-grade 3D printer can literally make a plastic cloak overnight," said researcher Yaroslav Urzhumov, an electrical engineer at Duke University.

FILE - In this Feb. 12, 2014 file photo, attendees of the Inside Bitcoins conference in Berlin examine Bitcoin buttons. (AP Photo)
TOKYO  –  The Mt. Gox bitcoin exchange in Tokyo filed for bankruptcy protection Friday and its chief executive said 850,000 bitcoins, worth several hundred million dollars, are unaccounted for.
The exchange's CEO Mark Karpeles appeared before Japanese TV news cameras, bowing deeply for several minutes.
He said a weakness in the exchange's systems was behind a massive loss of the virtual currency involving 750,000 bitcoins from users and 100,000 of the company's own bitcoins. That would amount to about $425 million at recent prices.
The online exchange's unplugging earlier this week and accusations it had suffered a catastrophic theft have drawn renewed regulatory attention to a currency created in 2009 as a way to make transactions across borders without third parties such as banks.
It remains unclear if the missing bitcoins were stolen, voided by technological flaws or both.

March 6, 2014: Dorian S. Nakamoto, the man that Newsweek claims is the founder of Bitcoin, denies he had anything to do with it and says he had never even heard of the digital currency until his son told him he had been contacted by a reporter three weeks ago.
(AP Photo/Damian Dovarganes)
Bitcoin tokens seen in Sandy, Utah.
(AP Photo/Rick Bowmer)
A 64-year-old Japanese-American man is vehemently denying any connection to bitcoin, despite a Newsweek cover story identifying him as the brains behind the bits.
?Dorian S. Nakamoto, whom Newsweek identifies by his given name, Satoshi Nakamoto, told the Associated Press he has nothing to do with the bitcoin, a digital currency that has no physical form and lacks any ties to a country. Bitcoin is also wildly successful, as far as currencies go, with everyone from football teams to food shops announcing plans to accept the digital currency.
Reached at his home in Temple City, Calif., Nakamoto acknowledged that many of the details in Newsweek's report are correct, including that he once worked for a defense contractor. But he strongly disputes the magazine's assertion that he is "the face behind bitcoin."
Widely circulated stories have said in the past a genius kid in Tokyo came up with the concept. Not so, writes Leah McGrath Goodman in a cover story for the recently re-launched Newsweek magazine.
[pullquote]

Solar Impulse, piloted by André Borschberg, takes flight during the second leg of the 2013 Across America mission, at dawn, Wednesday, May 22, 2013, from Sky Harbor International Airport in Phoenix. The solar powered aircraft is scheduled to land at Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport on Thursday May 23. The plane's creators, Bertrand Piccard and Borschberg, said the trip is the first attempt by a solar airplane capable of flying day and night without fuel to fly across America. (AP Photo/Matt York)
(The Associated Press)
The aircraft Solar Impulse is prepared for the second leg of the 2013 Across America mission, early Wednesday, May 22, 2013, at Sky Harbor International Airport in Phoenix. The solar powered aircraft is scheduled to land at Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport on Thursday May 23. The plane's creators, Bertrand Piccard and Borschberg, said the trip is the first attempt by a solar airplane capable of flying day and night without fuel to fly across America. (AP Photo/Matt York)
(The Associated Press)
Solar Impulse, piloted by André Borschberg, takes flight during the second leg of the 2013 Across America mission, at dawn, Wednesday, May 22, 2013, from Sky Harbor International Airport in Phoenix. The solar powered aircraft is scheduled to land at Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport on Thursday May 23. The plane's creators, Bertrand Piccard and Borschberg, said the trip is the first attempt by a solar airplane capable of flying day and night without fuel to fly across America. (AP Photo/Matt York)
(The Associated Press)
DALLAS –  A solar-powered plane has landed in Texas, completing the second leg of a trip across the United States.
The Solar Impulse is making the first attempt by a solar airplane capable of flying day and night without fuel to fly across the U.S.
The plane landed early Thursday at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport after taking off Wednesday from Phoenix.
The plane flew its first leg from California in early May. From Dallas, it will fly to Lambert-St. Louis airport, Dulles airport near Washington and New York's John F. Kennedy airport.
Each flight leg takes 20 or so hours, with multiday stops in each city.

Feb. 25, 2014: Bitcoin trader Kolin Burges, right, of London and American Aaron (only his first name was given) hold protest signs as they conduct a sit-in in front of the office tower housing Mt. Gox in Tokyo Tuesday.
(AP Photo/Kaori Hitomi)
TOKYO –  The head of troubled bitcoin exchange Mt. Gox says in a web post that he is still in Japan, and "working very hard" to find a solution to the Tokyo-based organization's problems.
The exchange has suspended trading amid accusations it suffered a catastrophic theft and its website went blank Tuesday, sparking speculation that it has collapsed.
Bitcoin, created in 2009, is an online currency that allows people to make transactions across borders without involving third parties such as banks or credit card issuers.
Tokyo-based Mt. Gox was one of the world's biggest exchanges for bitcoins.
CEO Mark Karpeles, who has disappeared from the public eye, said in a two paragraph post on the Mt. Gox website dated Wednesday that he has the support of different parties in finding a "solution to our recent issues."

(Laptopmag.com)
It's only been days since Samsung unveiled its latest flagship the Galaxy S5, so naturally Apple fans are eagerly awaiting rumors on the next iPhone. We've already heard that the iPhone 6 will likely sport a superstrong sapphire crystal display, and now comes word that the company behind that panel is signaling a fall launch for the device.
GT Advanced Technologies, the purported manufacturers of the iPhone 6's screen, said in a press release following its Q4 2013 earnings that the company "expects that 2014 will be a transformational year," and that it looks forward to "improving financial performance during the second half of 2014." Since Apple appears to be GT Advanced's most significant partner, 9to5Mac speculates that this anticipated revenue boost will come from a second half 2014 arrival of the new iPhone.
MORE: iPhone 6 Rumors: Inside Apple's Next Big Thing
Historically, Apple has launched new iterations of its flagship smartphone in mid-September, so this conclusion seems highly possible. This is despite other rumors of a possible May or June launch (the latter in sync with WWDC).
We've seen several reports that say the next iPhone will sport a sapphire crystal display, one that will supposedly be tougher and more scratch resistant that Corning's Gorilla Glass. The material is currently used as a cover for the Apple handset's camera lens to keep it from damage, and, if expanded to cover the phone's face, could make the device much more durable than its predecessors.

Next time your brain needs a challenge, skip the Sudoku and grab some wine.
Enjoying a glass of wine makes the grey matter in our brains work harder than it would any other human activity — like listening to music or solving a math problem — according to Gordon Shepherd, a neurologist at the Yale School of Medicine.
In his new book, "Neuroenology: How The Brain Creates The Taste of Wine," Shepherd states that smelling and drinking wine engages our entire brain and requires "exquisite control of one of the biggest muscles in the body."
5 UNEXPECTED HEALTH BENEFITS OF DRINKING ALCOHOL
Shepherd explains that wine molecules don't actually have any flavor, and it's our brains that create the sensation that we perceive as taste. The process is similar to how our brains see color.
Wine molecules stimulate thousands of our mouth's taste and odor receptors, which create both a sensory and emotional reaction in our brain. All these signals spark different cognitive areas — including memory, pattern recognition and pleasure — which work together to deliver the wine's "taste."
"The taste is not in the wine; the taste is created by the brain of the wine taster" Shepherd writes. Factors including age, gender, the genetic makeup of our saliva and whether or not we're depressed can also impact how we taste wine.

We've all heard it: Drink in moderation or else you'll do more harm than good.
That's because while research suggests small amounts of booze can be good for us, drinking in excess can harm our heart, brain and waistline. According to the American Heart Association, those health perks cap out at one drink per day for women and two daily for men.
WHAT YOUR PAST HABITS MAY MEAN FOR YOUR FUTURE HEALTH
Indeed, if you're not a drinker, the potential benefits alone aren't reason enough to start, Dr. Michael Levy, a Massachusetts-based  clinical psychologist and author of "Take Control of Your Drinking…and You May Not Need to Quit," told Fox News. If you're drinking more than what's recommended, consider scaling back, Levy recommended.
That said, you can still feel good about enjoying a glass or two of your happy-hour beverage of choice. Here's why:
Wine What it may be good for: Your brain Being a light-to-moderate tippler is associated with a reduced risk of dementia and Alzheimer's disease (particularly for people who don't have the gene that makes you more prone to Alzheimer's), per a 2012 research review published in the International Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry. Researchers noted that wine — which is packed with anti-inflammatory antioxidant polyphenols — seems to offer the best protection out of all types of booze.
5 WAYS TO REDUCE WORK-RELATED STRESS AND AVOID BURNOUT
Beer What it may be good for: Your bones Brewski is a rich source of silicon, a mineral that plays an important role in bone formation, a 2010 study in the Journal of Science and Food Agriculture suggests. Dietary sources like beer (cereal and green beans are others) may help maintain bone strength, a 2013 study published in the International Journal of Endocrinology on postmenopausal women notes. However, heavy drinking of any alcohol is linked to osteoporosis, so in this case, more is definitely not better.
Vodka What it may be good for: Your heart Vino gets all the attention for its disease-busting polyphenols, but it's the ethanol (alcohol) that does half the work, 2012 research in the journal Nutrients suggests. Ethanol helps keep blood platelets from sticking together (and potentially clotting) and increases "good" HDL cholesterol levels, according to the research.
THE DISEASES YOU'RE MORE LIKELY TO GET AS A MAN — AND A WOMAN
Whiskey What it may be good for: Your mood There's no doubt that a little alcohol can help you let go of stress. "It puts you in a different head space," Levy said. Yet, alcohol depresses your central nervous system, and heavier drinking clearly increases depression risk, he noted. If a single-finger pour of your favorite whiskey helps you unwind at night, that's OK, but too much may lead to mood problems — not exactly the fix you were looking for.
Champagne What it may be good for: Your social bonds Time for a toast! Social drinkers tend to be richer in the friend department, likely because alcohol triggers the release of endorphins, 2016 research from Adaptive Human Behavior and Physiology reveals. And a group of pals provides a strong source of emotional support. Cheers!

June 5, 2012: The Solar Impulse HB-SIA experimental aircraft is pulled out a hanger at Barajas airport in Madrid, Spain.
RABAT, Morocco –  An experimental solar-powered plane landed in Morocco's capital late Tuesday after a 20-hour trip from Madrid in the first transcontinental flight by a craft of its type.
With the wing span of a Boeing 777, the plane appeared out of the pitch darkness over the runway, suddenly turning on its lights and gliding to a landing in Rabat, the four propellors that flew it already silent.
The single-seat aircraft is fitted with 12,000 solar cells across its immense wings and weighs just as much as the average family car, according to organizers.
The plane is the first of its kind to fly both during the night and day as the solar panels charge the batteries that power its turbo-props.
Pilot Bertrand Piccard descended from the plane and said the Solar Impulse project had chosen Morocco because of its pioneering work in solar energy.

A team of researchers at Mississippi State University are creating a new football helmet and mouthguard designed to take concussion prevention to a whole new level.
"The helmet we are going to design will be safer than the current helmets out on the market right now," said Dr. Mark Horstemeyer, CAVS chair professor in mechanical engineering at Mississippi State University.
The new football helmet will be ready in 2015 and will have a Kevlar based frame, rams horn inspired inner foam lining, and a magnesium alloy face mask.
"Once we have this new design, we believe it's going to be better than the standard practice for mitigating shocks," said Dr. Horstemeyer.
But that's not all.
The researchers are also developing a mouth guard with a motion-recording accelerometer inside to monitor concussions.
"We use [the mouth guard] in conjunction with software to detect concussion" said Alston Rush, PHD student in biomedical engineering.
The concussion detection software is an app on a mobile device, and will notify trainers if a football player has been hit at a dangerous level.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention report approximately 1.6 to 3.8 million sports related concussions occur in the United States each year.
"But nobody has the simulation based design that we have, based on the damage inside of the brain," said Dr. Horstemeyer.
Not only is the helmet designed with real brain simulations, it's also tested with real pig brains to better understand concussions in the game of football.
"Pig brain is an almost perfect substitute for human subjects," said Robbyn Bertucci, PHD student in agricultural and Biomedical Engineering.
They test the pig brain by sticking the raw piece of flesh between two poles that collide under a pressure released mechanism.  The pig brain explodes and data is collected to see how the flesh of brains react to high impact scenarios.
"We're able to take that and predict how these brains would really deform inside of a helmet," said Wilburn Whittington, PHD student in mechanical engineering.
The mouth guard will be ready in summer 2014 and can be purchased from Predictive Design Technologies, LLC.
Kyle Rothenberg is a graduate of the Junior Reporter program at Fox News. Follow him on Twitter: @kylerothenberg

Yesterday we heard about Samsung's new smart-watch entries: the Gear 2, Gear 2 Neo, and Gear Fit, which arrive in April. Among various design and feature changes from the original Galaxy Gear smart watch, the new Gears will run on an operating system called Tizen, instead of on the Android OS.
So what is Tizen (pronounced "tie-zen"), and what does this switch mean for consumers?
Tizen is a Linux-based open-source platform, which means anyone can develop apps for it. (Android is also based on Linux and is also open source.) Tizen can be used in myriad devices, including smart phones, tablets, cars, and smart TVs. Samsung, along with Intel, was instrumental in the development of the Tizen OS and serves on the Tizen Association's board of directors, along with other behemoths such as Orange, NTT DoCoMo, and Vodafone—though not many have opted to use Tizen in actual devices yet.
We reached out to Samsung to ask, why the switch? A company spokesman replied, "The top level benefits of Tizen over Android will be improvements in battery life over the first version and a large app ecosystem, thanks to the open SDK we'll be releasing in March." The SDK the spokesmand refered to is a software development kit.
Shopping for a smart phone? Visit our cell phone buying guide and Ratings.
Battery life has been an issue with most of the original smart watches, but we won't know how much of a change Tizen will provide until we get the new Gears in for testing. And we won't know how many apps will be ready by then, either, though developers sre likely to jump on the Tizen smart-watch app bandwagon, considering Samsung's reach. In many ways, the apps make the platform—so it will be vital to the new Gears' success that the app ecosystem is very well populated, very quickly.
Samsung hasn't definitively confirmed that it will be replacing Android with Tizen in new smart phones. It has said that dozens of its phones will be compatible with the new smart watches when they arrive at the marketplace. That's a significant bump up from the original Galaxy Gear, which works with just a handful of Samsung phones and no phones from other brands.
The Wall Street Journal quotes the Samsung executive vice president Lee Young-hee as saying that "The company was already working on a new brand name for a line of Tizen-powered devices, and promised that the market would soon see new Tizen hardware." This doesn't mean Tizen smart phones—but it could.
We'll know in April how well Tizen works in the new Samsung smart watches and whether it delivers on battery life and the app ecosystem the way Samsung expects. But there's little doubt that this move will be very good for Tizen.
—Carol Mangis
Copyright © 2005-2014 Consumers Union of U.S., Inc. No reproduction, in whole or in part, without written permission. Consumer Reports has no relationship with any advertisers on this site.

Have trouble getting to bed or staying asleep? You're not alone. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimates one in four American adults get less than the daily recommended seven to eight hours of sleep. That insufficient shuteye is leaving them more at risk of diabetes, heart disease, depression and obesity.
THE BIGGEST SLEEP MYTHS, DEBUNKED
But don't reach for that bottle of NyQuil. Luckily, you can improve your sleep by simply changing up your diet. When you can't snooze, reach for these eats:
1. Meat When it comes to sleep-inducing fare, people often think of the Thanksgiving favorite turkey. But gamier meat like elk, goose, goat and rabbit are your best bet for promoting zzzs, as these options contain even more of turkey's key sleep ingredient, the essential amino acid tryptophan. Tryptophan can help you catch more shuteye because it contains the calming hormone serotonin, but elk, for example, contains three times as much of the ingredient as turkey.
How to enjoy: Try mixing your favorite gamey meat with a complex carb like brown rice to help better ferry tryptophan to the brain.
2. Garbanzo beans Not into gamey meat? Garbanzo beans are also a great source of tryptophan. As a plus, they're easier to find in your local grocery store — just head to the canned foods aisle.
How to enjoy: For a bedtime snack, dig into some homemade or store-bought hummus with crudité or whole-wheat crackers.
AGING ISN'T KILLING US, LACK OF SLEEP IS
3. Tart cherries Tart cherries offer a natural source of melatonin, a hormone responsible for the sleep-wake cycle in humans. An easy way to get them year-round is by picking up a bottle of tart cherry juice, as research shows the benefits are the same as eating the whole fruit. A study published in the European Journal of Nutrition showed that subjects who drank tart cherry juice for seven days slept longer and better compared to those who didn't.
How to enjoy: Aim for an 8-ounce glass daily, and steer clear of varieties with added sugar.
4. Pumpkin seeds Next Halloween, salvage those seeds from your jack o' lantern, as they're proven to help you clock more snooze time. Pumpkin seeds contain the vital mineral magnesium, which promotes muscle relaxation and lowers levels of the stress hormone cortisol, among other benefits.
How to enjoy: Whip up a salad with arugula, low-fat goat cheese and salt-free pumpkin seeds for a sleep-friendly dinner.

While we all know eating carrots won't magically give us 20-20 vision, can what we eat affect our eyesight?
It turns out, eye health is crucially linked to diet — consuming certain essential nutrients can stave off eye disease and age-related degeneration. Fox News spoke to Dr. Andrea Thau, president of the American Optometric Association, and Lauren Blake, a dietitian at The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center, to get their tips on the best foods to eat for optimum eye health:
1. Leafy greens The carotenoids lutein and zeaxanthin — found in eggs and leafy greens like spinach and kale — are essential for eye health, Thau and Blake said. "Studies have shown that lutein and zeaxanthin reduce the risk of chronic eye disease, including age-related macular degeneration," Thau explained. (Age-related macular degeneration is a common cause of vision loss in people over 50.)
6 WAYS TO LOSE MORE WEIGHT AS YOU AGE
2. Salmon Essential omega-3 fatty acids, found in fish like salmon and tuna, can help reduce inflammation, enhance production of tears, and support the outer layer of the eye, Thau said.
3. Sweet potatoes Vitamin E is a powerful antioxidant that helps protect our eyes from free radicals, which break down healthy tissues, Thau said. She noted that sweet potatoes and fortified cereals are both great sources of vitamin E.
4. Chickpeas Zinc is a trace mineral and "helper molecule" that plays an essential role in bringing Vitamin A from the liver to the retina, Thau said. Good sources of zinc include chicken, chickpeas and pumpkin seeds.
AVOID THESE 'HEALTHY' FOODS THAT ARE ACTUALLY SUGAR BOMBS
5. Bell peppers Vitamin C, found in foods like bell peppers, broccoli, and Brussels sprouts, can help protect against UV light damage to our eyes, Blake said. It can also lower the risk of developing cataracts and even, in combination with other nutrients, slow down the rate of age-related macular degeneration, Thau said.
6. Almonds Vitamin E is another essential nutrient that can help prevent cataracts and age-related degeneration, Blake said, noting that good sources include wheat germ, peanut butter and almonds.

Cheating on a significant other isn't always about sex. There's another type of infidelity that is less talked about and harder to spot, yet has the same, damaging effect as any other type of betrayal: financial infidelity. And, according to a new Smart About Money survey, the number of people who are financially unfaithful is on the rise. Among those couples who have ever combined finances, two in five (42 percent) have committed some sort of financial deception.
"That's up noticeably from two years ago," Ted Beck, president of the National Endowment for Financial Education, told Fox News. "When people in relationships are financially unfaithful, it can include things like hiding purchases, hiding bank account statements, taking things from the mail so their partner or spouse does not see, keeping cash, or even having a credit card the other party doesn't know about."
EXPERTS SAY THIS IS THE BEST WAY TO FLIRT
Financial infidelity can be as severe as lying about the amount of debt one partner brings into the relationship or about the income he or she makes. It usually goes unnoticed until the unassuming partner finds out on their own, whether through a discovered bank statement, a questionable purchase, or the like.
"It's important to remember that money is the number one stress factor for most people and most relationships," Beck said. "In a two-income family, there can be a mentality where one partner thinks, 'I want to use the money I earned as I see fit.' Very often, they're afraid that their partner won't approve of how they spend money or they're embarrassed or fearful that their partner will find out about a bad habit."
Beck added that, in financial infidelity, it's the secrecy that really harms the relationship — not only do partners set money aside secretly, but often they hide the fact the money exists at all.
Among those who have committed financial deception, and/or whose partner did, 75 percent said the financial deceptions affected their current or past relationships, with over a quarter (28 percent) saying it caused less trust in the relationship.
9 SIGNS YOUR PARTNER MAY BE CHEATING
Like many problems that arise in relationships, if you find out your partner is being financially unfaithful, it's important to communicate about it without being accusatory or confrontational. Although 32 percent of the survey recipients said they'd prefer if some aspects of their finances remained private from their partner, Beck advised couples to still keep those financial lines of communication open.
"Especially in married couples, the thing you have to remember is that your credit rating is affected by your spouse's actions," he pointed out. "So, you're really talking about your own life when these things happen — especially if it deals with any sort of credit or bad behavior like overdrawing accounts or bouncing checks."

Research suggests a slew of benefits for those people in a happy and healthy relationship. But what about those of us who haven't found our match — or are happy on our own?
David Essel, author of "Positive Thinking Will Never Change Your Life But This Book Will: The Myth of Positive Thinking, the Reality of Success," and sexual medicine specialist Dr. Maria Sophocles have some good news for a those concerned parties: Indeed, there are some pretty significant benefits to going it alone.
"There's a little bit of a stigma that being single is sad, and everyone wants a mate and everyone wants a life partner," Sophocles told Fox News. "But the truth is, there's over 100 million single U.S. adults in America, and a lot of them are living full, joyful and healthy lives."
9 SIGNS YOUR PARTNER MAY BE CHEATING ON YOU
Fox News talked to Essel and Sophocles to learn five surprising health benefits of being single.
1. You get more time for you. In some relationships, we end up putting our partner's needs first while our personal well-being takes a backseat. Not so when you're single.
"A lot of times when people are single, they get into the best shape ever," Essel said. "The only thing you want to remember is when you do fall in love again, don't lose yourself. Keep those healthy practices."
Sophocles agreed.
"Single people often have more time to spend on self-care, on physical health — things like going to a gym, exercising, eating and cooking just for themselves."
With your next partner, be mindful of your stress levels, which, if high, may be a sign of a bad relationship. Stress can lead to weight gain and breakouts, Essel said, so take this time to prioritize self-care.
5 UNEXPECTED BENEFITS OF DATING A YONGER PARTNER
2. You have more time to reflect. Taking the time to examine your role in choosing incorrect past partners can help you prepare for a future healthy relationship, Essel said.
"When we look at the dysfunction of stress in relationships, it can take a while to let those resentments go," he explained. "We say this is the perfect time to be single mentally and work on letting go of the past. Look at forgiving those people who were not good choices for you."
Essel added that this is also a healthy time to rid your mind of negative thoughts like believing men are all dogs or women are all self-centered.
3. You can reconnect with your friends. In the face of new love, many of us tend to make less of an effort in our friendships. But when you're single, you have the opportunity to regain that lost time with those people.
"We know that single people — especially single women — are more adept and maintain friends longer and maintain a larger social network," Sophocles said.
THE 4 TYPES OF CHEATERS — AND HOW TO SPOT THEM
Also, without having to devote time to a romantic relationship, you now have more time to serve others beyond your immediate social circle.
"A lot of times in relationships, we forget about what it feels like to serve others," Essel said. "Volunteering, joining meetup groups, taking courses and hobbies that you love, getting back engaged with friends you disconnected with while in a relationship can help you build stronger relationships, which is very healthy for ourselves and future relationships."
4. You have a chance to get your budget on track. Particularly when we're in a new relationship, it's easier to blow money on dates and activities. While fun, those expenses may extend beyond what's appropriate to actually spend.
"Being single is healthy for our finances," Essel said. "This would be a good time to set budgets. What are your limits for you to live without financial stress? Just remember the main theme running through all these health benefits: Let me start these healthy habits now and not lose them once I get back on track with love."

The work of aliens? Indonesia's first crop circle has left many wondering -- but scientists remain skeptical.
(Tribunnews.com / Hasan Sakri Ghazali)
Indonesia's first crop circles have appeared -- and locals call it evidence of alien life.
Found in a rice field in a hamlet of Sleman, Yogyakarta, the crop circle consists of triangles and circles with a diameter of about 70 meters. While some observes say the shapes are manmade, local scientists and government officials are struggling for a concrete explanation, leaving UFO enthusiasts murmuring of extraterrestrials.
"According to several residents, they saw a tornado on Saturday evening," said Ngadiran, one of six farmers who owns the land in Sleman. "On Sunday afternoon, we saw the footprint in our fields."
The pattern was first reported by a farmer, Tukiman, on Sunday at 6 a.m. His story drew hordes of people, causing heavy traffic congestion in the region. Enthusiastic locals all seem to have their own theory on the genesis of the mysterious occurrence.
"I think they were left by an alien space ship, like one I saw on TV," Krasakan resident Cahyo Utomo told the Jakarta Post on Monday. "It is impossible that this was made by wind or any animal."
Others noted the pattern's unique symbology. "This particular crop circle is fascinating because of its striking resemblance to the muladhara chakra -- one of the basic chakras in Tantric Hinduism," Perdana told local news agency kompas.com.
But officials remain skeptical that the crop circle is evidence of a close encounter of the third kind.
"We will not send investigators to the scene because we suspect the crop circle involves human intervention, not natural phenomena, nor scientific phenomena associated with outer space creatures commonly referred to as aliens," Thomas Djamaluddin, chief of astronomy research at Indonesia's space agency, told the Jakarta Globe.
The emergence of crop circles around the world have become increasingly prevalent since the 1970s, their mysterious appearance causing many to consider them the work of UFOs.
In 1991, self-professed pranksters Doug Bower and Dave Chorley went public to claim responsibility for the trend, demonstrating their skill at making the typically ornate pattern in less than an hour.
At least some crop circles have been proven hoaxes, but some remain convinced of their otherworldly connections. The former head of the Bosscha Observatory, Moedji Rharto, is taking a pragmatic approach.
"If this really is the work of a UFO or extraterrestrial beings, it is almost 100 percent certain they would have left some sort of trace behind. It is highly improbable such beings could cover such distances without bringing along some sort of provisions," Moedji told the Jakarta Post.
No such evidence has yet been retrieved.

In news that will come as no surprise to anyone over the age of 30, new research has found it gets harder to sleep as we get older.
But it's not young children, partners or weather sabotaging our precious rest, but biology, according to American sleep researchers.
A review of scientific literature published in the medical journal Neuron found adults begin to lose their ability to lapse into deep, restorative sleep from about their mid-30s.
And it's no coincidence, the researchers say, that this is also about the time we start to show signs of aging.
SCIENCE SAYS TOXIC FRIENDSHIPS ARE MAKING YOU FAT AND LOOK OLD
More frighteningly, however, report co-author Professor Matthew Walker said, is that lack of sleep has also been linked with a host of deadly diseases, particularly those affecting the brain.
"Sleep changes with aging, but it doesn't just change with aging; it can also start to explain aging itself," he said.
"Every one of the major diseases that are killing us in first-world nations — from diabetes to obesity to Alzheimer's disease to cancer — all of those things now have strong causal links to a lack of sleep."
"And all of those diseases significantly increase in likelihood the older that we get, and especially in dementia."
Researchers have found that, as the brain ages, neurons and circuits in the areas that regulate sleep slowly degrade, resulting in a decreased amount of non-REM sleep.
CALCULATING YOUR BEDTIME MAY HELP YOU GET A BETTER NIGHT'S SLEEP
Non-REM sleep is characterized as a deep state of sleep, without rapid eye movement, dreaming, and bodily movement.
Non-REM sleep plays a key role in maintaining memory and cognition, which explains the connection between brain conditions such as dementia and Alzheimer's disease.
Walker, who leads the Sleep and Neuroimaging Laboratory at the University of California at Berkeley, said there remains some debate as to whether older adults need less sleep, or they cannot generate the sleep that they need.
"The evidence seems to favor one side — older adults do not have a reduced sleep need, but instead, an impaired ability to generate sleep," he said.
"The elderly therefore suffer from an unmet sleep need."
EXPERTS DEBUNK THE BIGGEST MYTHS ABOUT SLEEP
The authors stress that there is variability between individuals when it comes to sleep loss.
However, the review did find that women seem to experience far less deterioration in non-REM deep sleep than men.
With loss of deep sleep starting in the mid-thirties, Walker said it must be seen as an important health issue.
"We need to recognize the causal contribution of sleep disruption in the physical and mental deterioration that underlies aging and dementia," he said.

Does counting sheep help you nod off, and does eating cheese late at night give you nightmares?
Recent studies have found that at least one-third of the Australian adult population regularly suffers from significant sleep problems, which can lead to a raft of illnesses, including diabetes and depression.
But many of the things we know about sleep are completely wrong, according to U.K. sleep and insomnia expert Dr. Tania Ahern.
This month is National Bed Month, and Dr. Ahern has teamed up with Drift Sleep, maker of mattresses with natural surfaces, to explain the truth behind the top sleep myths.
"We all want to sleep well and get up ready for the day ahead, and in our quest to do so over the years, we've created so many myths," she said. "We wanted to share these with people so they can stop worrying about unnecessary problems and focus on fixing the underlying problem."
1. Taking sleeping tablets ensures a good night's sleep Studies have shown that sleeping tablets increase total sleep time on average by just 25 minutes. Although they induce sleep more quickly, the amnesiac effect means that you are less likely to remember waking up during the night and long-term use can impact on your general health.
2. A nightcap will help me drift off Although alcohol will make you sleep more quickly, it also has significant negative effect on sleep quantity and quality. In the first half of the night it brings on deep sleep but suppresses REM (dream) sleep. Once the alcohol has worn off, there is a "rebound effect" with more episodes of wakefulness and lighter sleep.
3. I can make up for lost sleep at the weekend Two-thirds of the population go to bed later and sleep in at weekends but they may be experiencing "social jet lag." A change in pattern disrupts the natural rise and fall in body temperature, which in turn delays onset of sleep. This, in turn, leads to Sunday night insomnia leaving you tired on Monday morning.
Click for more from News.com.au.

As we age, our metabolism slows, making weight loss that much trickier. The major reason for this change? Decreasing muscle mass: After age 20, our muscle mass decreases about 1 to 2 percent per year, Jennifer Christman, a dietitian at Medifast, told Fox News.
"The more lean muscle we have, the higher our metabolism is, because muscle is more metabolically active than fat," Lauren Blake, a dietitian at The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center, explained to Fox News.
6 MORNING HABITS THAT CAN JUMP-START YOUR WEIGHT LOSS
But if you're trying to shed those extra pounds, is there any way to get around this slower metabolism? Fox News spoke to Christman and Blake to get their tips:
1. Weight train. To prevent the slowing of metabolism that comes with muscle loss, try to maintain that muscle through exercise, including resistance training and weight training, Christman said.
"That doesn't mean hulking out in the gym every day," Blake explained. "It just means engaging those muscles so that you're preventing that loss." Great exercises can include push-ups, yoga and Pilates, Blake said.
YES, YOU CAN EAT CARBS AND STILL LOSE WEIGHT
2. Get enough calories. You may think slashing calories will help keep your weight down, but that's not the case, Blake said. "If you're chronically under-eating, your body does not have the energy it needs to maintain itself," she explained. Instead, it'll break down energy from lean muscle mass, further slowing your metabolism.
3. Don't skip meals. Eating continuously throughout the day helps your body keep burning fuel effectively, Blake said. Aim for at least three meals per day.
5 CRAZY NEW WAYS TO LOSE WEIGHT
4. Eat enough protein. To maintain your muscle mass and keep your metabolism high, be sure to get enough protein at meals — about 1-1.3 grams per kilogram of weight, Christman said. For a 150-pound woman, that would mean about 68-86 grams of protein per day (one egg has about 7 grams of protein). Make sure the protein is from high quality sources, such as lean meats, fish and beans, Christman advised.
Blake agreed, noting that protein also helps balance our blood sugar, which helps prevent weight gain and can keep us full longer.
5. Drink water. Research shows that if you're dehydrated, you burn fewer calories, Blake said. Make sure to drink water throughout the day.

For some of us, flirting comes naturally, but for others, it's a learned art to be mastered like nailing an impressive field goal or making a difficult three-point shooter in the big leagues. OK, maybe not that much skill. But if you're looking to attract the opposite sex, knowing the right way to flirt can mean the difference between creeping out that special someone and actually landing a date with him or her.
Fox News talked to some professional matchmakers to learn the best tips men and women can use to help flirt like a pro — without coming off as desperate, weird or foolish.
Here's your ultimate guide to flirting:
Dress your best If you're meeting your date for coffee, keep your ensemble casual, but if it's a night out on the town, get out those heels or pop that collar. "Wear something that shows that you are putting effort in," Stef Safran, a matchmaking and dating expert in Chicago, told Fox News.
Offer physical touch If the attraction is mutual and confirmed as consensual, gently touch the person's arm, elbow, or, if they're sitting down, their leg. "This adds a sexual layer to the flirting mechanism without being overly forward," New York-based dating coach Cher Hubsher, who's known as "The NYC Wingwoman," told Fox News. "Just remember not to keep your hand there; rather, just use light touch when laughing or making fun comments."
Flaunt your features Show off your most attractive assets by choosing your attire carefully. "If you are a man who loves his chest, wear a fitted shirt," Hubsher said. "If you are a woman who believes her best features are her lips, wear nice red lipstick. Or, if you believe it is your hair, wear it down and let it flow!" Making that choice can help make you look and feel more confident, Hubsher noted.

From online to the neighborhood bar, there are numerous ways to meet men. But just because a guy is persistent, attentive, and doesn't wear a wedding ring doesn't mean he's available. How can you really tell?
Fox News talked to Dr. Paul DePompo, psychologist and director of the Cognitive Behavioral Therapy Institute of Southern California, about the four types of men who may be inclined to cheat so you can make better decisions while you're out on the dating playing field. Next time you meet one of them, steer clear!
Mr. Charming Who he is: Mr. Charming is hard to resist. He's smart, fun, likeable, exciting, and only likes to be around such people. "Believing he deserves to have what he wants, he sees the affair as rewarding him for the special person he is. To accept less than what he wants would make him feel like a fool. He could be 'fine' in his marriage yet still believe he should exercise his sexual prowess. Getting you means he's still got it … until he gets you," DePompo told Fox News.
How to spot him: DePompo advised paying attention to his actions. "Mr. Charming will lack real empathy when you're let down, but then it's hard for you to stay angry. He'll focus on his own gratification, may tend to have a large age gap over you, spend money lavishly to impress, and is likely to find fault in others when problems occur."
THIS TYPE OF CHEATING IS ON THE RISE
Mr. Deprived Who he is: Mr. Deprived's years of sexual frustration make him want to stray. "Though he and his wife may be good friends, he's in the midst of a sexual self-esteem crisis and believes sex with you is a key piece to happiness. He has sexual fantasies that he cannot share with his spouse because she is not open to it or may put him down," DePompo said. Although there are aspects to his marriage that may work well, he feels a deep longing for this physical connection.
How to spot him: Mr. Deprived may come across as extra flirty, and make unwelcomed sexual jokes and comments. "He'll distract himself with porn, drinking, or will overwork himself," DePompo said. "He may become hyper-focused on morals in order to minimize the importance of sex, exhibit jealousy or anger regarding other's happiness, and will tell you his wife does not like sex."
Mr. Lonely Who he is: Mr. Lonely comes across like a sweet lost puppy, but he's far from it. He lacks emotional connection and just wants validation and attention from you. "He may find his wife/girlfriend to be demanding, and has learned it is 'safer' to avoid conflict at home. Mr. Lonely has a history of putting others first and now has a strong need for appreciation … and this hasn't been happening — maybe ever. Though he considers the pros and cons of staying in the marriage, he is more focused on healing his hurt by connecting with you," DePompo explained.
How to spot him: Look to see if he avoids expressing his needs and wants, DePompo said. "Does he put others first, yet he is not happy about it? Does he make passive-aggressive comments or behaviors towards others? Mr. Lonely will over-work himself in order to stay away from home and will play the 'martyr' role to get sympathy from others."
9 SIGNS SHE MAY BE CHEATING ON YOU
Mr. Ready Who he is: Mr. Ready is so done with his marriage. He wants to move on, but it may or may not be with you, DePompo said. "He has lost hope and does not expect loving feelings to return at home. Even if they could rekindle, he is spent and would not want it! He has considered the financial and parenting losses that would incur and is at peace with them." There is no confusion here; he is moving on.
How to spot him: He's taking clear steps to move out and move on with his life. "[Mr. Ready] talks to his close friends and family about his plans, and will go for counseling to sort out his feelings," DePompo said. "If he hasn't moved out yet, he's sleeping in a separate bedroom." If he tells you he's ending his marriage, does he at least have the documentation to prove it?

Single and looking for love? Finding it then sticking with your sweetheart may benefit your health in more ways than one, research suggests. A study published Monday in the journal  Psychoneuroendocrinology found married couples had lower levels of the stress hormone cortisol compared with single or divorced participants. Elevated levels of cortisol can lead to inflammation, which is tied to various chronic ailments like heart disease, diabetes and cancer, researchers noted.
Turns out, several studies suggest your health can stand to benefit from being in a healthy long-term relationship.
Here are a just a handful of ways being in a happy marriage may boost your health:
1. You may be less likely to die of cancer A 2013 study published in the Journal of Clinical Oncology of nearly 1.3 million patients diagnosed with various types of cancer found that married men and women were less likely than single people to have disease that had spread, more likely to receive treatment in a timely manner, and less likely to die as a result of their ailment. Men saw a greater overall protective benefit than women, but the association remained true regardless of the type of cancer involved, researchers noted.
2. You may be better protected from heart disease … Being married may significantly reduce a man's chance of dying from heart disease, a 2007 study published in the journal Psychosomatic Medicine suggests. After accounting for age, blood pressure, body mass index (BMI), cholesterol, and other lifestyle choices, researchers found that married men were almost half as likely as unmarried men to die 10 years after being diagnosed with heart disease.
3. … and Stroke Being a single or unhappily married man may increase your risk of fatal stroke, according to a 2010 study conducted by the American Heart Association. Researchers' analysis — which involved about 10,000 Israeli men with an average age of 49 — suggested participants who were dissatisfied with their marriages saw an adjusted risk of fatal stroke that was 64 percent higher than those men who reported having a successful marriage. "I had not expected that unsuccessful marriage would be of this statistical importance," lead author Dr. Uri Goldbourt, a professor of epidemiology and preventive medicine at Tel Aviv University in Israel, said in a news release.

Leaders of the #fitspo movement solicit heaps of praise on social media, but what it really takes to achieve a viral-worthy transformation photo often remains hidden from public view.
Former bikini competitor Julie Ledbetter, of Colorado Springs, Colorado, has illuminated some of those secrets in a viral Instagram post — and, she divulges, the journey isn't always pretty.
FITNESS BLOGGER PROMOTES BODY CONFIDENCE WITH PIC OF ARM CELLULITE
"I was almost in the single digits for body fat % (not healthy), constantly cold (in the middle of JULY), always thinking about my next meal because I was in a deep caloric deficit and couldn't miss a gym session because 'I was ___ weeks out from my show,'" Ledbetter writes in the post.
A post shared by SELF-LOVE | LIFESTYLE | HEALTH (@juliealedbetter) on Apr 18, 2017 at 6:03pm PDT
Not so anymore. Since abandoning the competitions, she's lost her six-pack and buff arms — but she's also gotten her life back, she writes.
To show how she's changed, Ledbetter shares a reverse side-by-side transformation photo: one showing her in 2014 before she won a bikini competition and another showing her today, when she's "happy, healthy and free" with no plans to compete anymore.
She recalled sending the 2014 photo to her coach at the time, asking him if she still needed to shed more weight before the competition.
A post shared by SELF-LOVE | LIFESTYLE | HEALTH (@juliealedbetter) on Mar 1, 2017 at 6:01pm PST
"Talked (sic) about a WARPED brain I had," she writes.
In the post, she clarifies that she isn't bashing bikini competitions themselves. Rather, she urges her followers not to compare themselves to women like her former self. Not only did she find the lifestyle unsustainable, but many of the images that grace magazine covers are Photoshopped to look unrealistic, she warns.

Plenty of us wake up each day feeling like we could do with a little more sleep.
In fact, at least one-third of the adult population regularly suffers from significant sleep problems. Thirty-five per cent of Australians don't feel refreshed when they wake in the morning and the same proportion wakes frequently during the night.
Recent research suggests we should forget about counting how many hours sleep we're getting - and instead start thinking about sleep according to the cycles it works in.
WHY SOME MEN GET SLEEPY AFTER SEX
The brain has a pattern of sleep. You don't just fall asleep and hour one is the same as hours two and three and five and nine. It goes through cycles.
As such, the Sleep Calculator could be just what you need to get a better night's sleep.
The tool flies in the face of the old theory that getting an early night in is the best way wake up feeling rested. Instead, it aims to help users nod off on to the start of a new sleep cycle so you wake up at the end of one - and as a result you avoid feeling groggy when you wake.
The creators of the tool, blind retailer Web Blinds, explain "getting a good night's sleep is about more than simply going to bed early — it's about waking up at the right time too.
"Using a formula based on the body's natural rhythms, the Sleep Calculator will work out the best time for you to rise or go to sleep."
5 CRAZY THINGS THAT HAPPEN WHEN YOU DON'T BRUSH YOUR TONGUE
The calculator counts back from the time a person needs to wake in 90 minute cycles and takes into account a '15 minute dropping off period'.
So, if you need to be at the office by 9am, rising at 8am, it advises that you either go to bed at 10:46pm or wait for the next cycle to begin at 12:16am.
In January website Hillarys.co.uk launched the Lost Sleep Calculator that reveals your sleep loss over the course of a week, month, year or even your lifetime.
The website also exposes how long each person tosses and turns in bed thinking about things distracting things like food, work and sex.
Visitors to the Lost Sleep Calculator have to input their age and the amount of sleep they had the night before.
12 ACNE TREATMENTS THAT ACTUALLY WORK
The tool then works out if the individual has slept enough or not and calculates how much sleep they are losing over the course of a longer time frame, like a month or year.
Using data from a survey of more than 2500 adults, Hillarys.co.uk worked out how long a user spends restless in bed because of other thoughts.
The poll discovered that most of us are kept up at night with thoughts of things like arguments with friends and family or sex with our partners.

We've been chasing weight loss shortcuts for centuries. From William the Conqueror, who tried a liquid diet after he became too heavy to ride his horse, to Lord Byron, who exercised in layers to sweat off pounds, men have always been drawn to radical slimdown schemes. "They provide a sense of both risk and control," says Sander Gilman, Ph.D., the author of Fat Boys and Obesity.
Do any lose-weight-quick tricks actually do the trick? Sometimes. But as David Katz, M.D., director of the Yale-Griffin Prevention Research Center, points out, "A cocaine binge will result in weight loss, but that doesn't make it a good idea." We don't eat tapeworms or use vibrating belts anymore, but here are five crazy things some guys try. (For a fast fat-loss program that relies on tried-and-true workout techniques, check out MetaShred Extreme from Men's Health.)
1. FAT FREEZING Inspired by "popsicle panniculitis"—the temporary dimples kids get from sucking on popsicles—researchers at Massachusetts General Hospital created cryolipolysis, or CoolSculpting, in 2008.
During the first hourlong session (several may be needed, and the tab runs upwards of $750 every time you treat an area), the fat in a patient's problem site is pressed between two cooling plates connected to a vacuum tube. Dermatologist Mathew Avram, M.D., a CoolSculpting advocate, says the freezing of cells stimulates apoptosis, or programmed cell death. After two to three months, says Dr. Avram, the body clears the affected fat cells out of the area. It's unclear whether they relocate elsewhere in your body or come out when you go to the bathroom.
Dr. Avram cites studies that show that cryolipolysis can provide about a 22 percent reduction in fat-layer thickness. However, that's only in the treatment area, like a love handle or your spare tire.
DOES IT WORK? It's not invasive surgery, and it's FDA approved. Overall, though, the fat loss is "minor at best," says Michael Roizen, M.D., chair of the Cleveland Clinic Wellness Institute. "As far as getting rid of the fat that's dangerous to your health, it does nothing."
What's more, Dr. Katz warns of the potential for infection. "Think of it as frostbite, but on purpose and internally," he says. "Cellular debris like that undermines the inner barriers that prevent bacteria from getting into places they don't belong." Plus, your fat could return: UCLA researchers found that fat freezing could lead to something called "paradoxical adipose hyperplasia," an increase in weight in the treated area, in a very small percentage of patients.
2. GASTRIC BALLOON You know that uncomfortably full feeling that sets in after a big meal? That's the idea behind the gastric balloon, which can cost $5,000 to $7,000. A silicone balloon is placed into your stomach endoscopically through a tube, or you swallow it in a pill that's tethered to a small catheter. Then the balloon is inflated to roughly the size of a grapefruit.
"It's sort of like eating a big Thanksgiving dinner, and the 'Thanksgiving full' feeling doesn't leave your stomach," says Vladimir Kushnir, M.D., director of bariatric endoscopy at Washington University in St. Louis. Temporary side effects can include vomiting, nausea, cramping, and discomfort. But once your body acclimates to the balloon, there aren't many restrictions: just no rugby or kickboxing or any activity that could get you punched in the gut.
DOES IT WORK? This procedure isn't for minor toning. It's for people who need to lose 25 pounds or more. Dr. Kushnir, who was involved in clinical trials of the Obalon intragastric balloon (the swallowable pill form, recently approved by the FDA), says it's typical for patients to lose 25 percent of their excess weight. "On rare occasions, someone will drop more than 50 pounds," he says. It isn't a magic bullet, he warns, but should be considered just a tool to supplement weight loss efforts.
Christine Ren-Fielding, M.D., a professor and chief of bariatric surgery at NYU Langone Medical Center, says the balloon is more of a weight loss jumpstart.
Dr. Katz is more skeptical: "It can cause atrophy of the stomach lining or even rupturing of the stomach," he says. The balloon comes out after six months, and patients are encouraged to keep meeting with their program dietitian to reinforce the healthy behaviors they learned. But as with any weight loss procedure, success depends on your ability to maintain a low-calorie diet.
3. VAPING Diet programs like Slissie and the Vapor Diet promise to curb hunger cravings with artificial flavor vapors. There are roughly 450 e-cigarette brands, with flavors ranging from black licorice and cheesecake to pizza and, yes, Katy Perry's Cherry. The Vapor Diet starts at around $100, and then you pay $65 a month for refill bottles.
DOES IT WORK? Researchers in New Zealand who recently examined the idea came to a less-than-resounding conclusion: maybe. Marewa Glover, Ph.D., an associate professor of public health at Massey University, says vaping may help smokers who've recently quit cigarettes avoid weight gain, but more research is needed. "The long-term health risks of vaping are yet to emerge," she clarifies. "But it's vastly safer than smoking cigarettes. If people are reluctant to quit smoking because they're afraid of the slight weight gain. . .what we've seen seems to indicate that vaping could help."
"About a half hour after you eat, you just open up a tube and pour out the contents from your stomach into the toilet bowl."
But not gaining a few pounds as you try to give up cigarettes is very different from real weight loss. "This is about smokers making choices that are less destructive. No one is recommending that nonsmokers take up vaping," Glover says. Plus, vaping may have serious health consequences. Researchers at UC San Diego have discovered that e-cig vapor can be toxic to the cells lining human organs, causing DNA damage that could conceivably lead to cancer.
4. STOMACH DRAINING Have you ever finished a big meal and then thought, "Wouldn't it be great if I could open a valve in my stomach and just drain out a third of what I've eaten, like the most disgusting beer keg ever?" Of course you haven't, but this technology exists anyway and is marketed as AspireAssist.
"It's basically a tube that's surgically inserted into your abdomen," says Dr. Ren-Fielding. A port valve remains outside your body, flush against the skin, like a new orifice (that costs between $8,000 and $10,000). "About a half hour after you eat, you just open up a tube and pour out a third of the contents—about 30 percent of the calories—from your stomach into the toilet bowl," Dr. Ren-Fielding says. You are, in effect, pooping out of your stomach.
DOES IT WORK? Ongoing clinical trials suggest that it does. The FDA has approved AspireAssist for adults with BMIs between 35 and 55. Average weight loss among the 200-pound participants was 12.1 percent of their body weight, versus 3.5 percent for those on diet alone, says Louis Aronne, M.D., of the Weight Control Center at Weill Cornell Medicine, who helped with the trials. "Then they maintained the weight loss by using the device intermittently," he says.
The AspireAssist has a safety feature that tracks the drainage, and it automatically stops working after 115 cycles (five to six weeks). The device might help men modify their behavior, Dr. Ren-Fielding says. "When you use this device, you can't just gobble food," she says. "Because then it'll be in thick globs and won't fit through the tube." You have to learn how to chew more slowly—a smart habit for anyone.
Dr. Katz calls aspiration therapy "metabolic mayhem." When you're pumping out those excess calories, he says, "there's no way of controlling your nutritional balance."
5. BODY WRAP The Thermojet Morfologic is a body wrap treatment purported to help you burn thousands of calories by emitting infrared rays that stimulate your metabolism. With this spa treatment, you lie on a table for an hour with your arms, legs, and abdomen wrapped in silicone pads heated to temperatures just below intolerable. The idea is to sweat, and you'll feel like you're in a sleeping bag filled with warm ricotta.
DOES IT WORK? If sweating off the pounds sounds too good to be true, that's probably because it is. Dr. Katz calls the Thermojet body wrap "utter hooey," adding, "There is certainly no science behind it." In the name of due diligence, I tried the treatment myself. I lost exactly 1 pound, which I promptly regained by morning. I also showered four times in the 48 hours following my body wrap treatment, because I felt like I was constantly sweating. If you want to sweat away weight, vigorous exercise is a much better choice. Try this metabolism-boosting interval workout.

As told to Anna Davies
There's a moment I always dread whenever I'm with a group of women. It happens after we've met up a few times and everyone feels comfortable. Inevitably, the conversation turns to sex.
Luckily, now that we're all moms who've been married for a while, the conversation is about how little sex we're having. I laugh, agree, and excuse myself to head to the ladies' room or order another cup of coffee.
What I don't want to tell people—because it's really not anyone's business—is that both my husband and I are asexual. We have had sex, but it's not something we seek out. Our date nights are Netflix binges and separate beds; our romantic evenings never end with a good-night kiss. And we couldn't be happier. (Want to pick up some healthier habits? Sign up to get daily healthy living tips and more delivered straight to your inbox!)
Let me back up. I remember being 12 years old and panicking when all my friends talked about who they had crushes on. It was 1992, and New Kids on the Block was all the rage, so I bought the posters and said I was in love with Donnie. But I wasn't. I would look through teen magazines and not feel anything. The same was true for the actual boys in school. Other girls would talk about how so-and-so was "hot," and I'd nod, but I just didn't get it. For a while I remember wondering if I was a lesbian. My family was really open about everything, and my parents had a couple of gay and lesbian friends who would come over. It wasn't a big deal. But when I tried to think of a girl or woman I had a crush on, I came up blank as well.
I had a boyfriend in freshman year of high school because everyone in my social circle was getting into relationships. I liked him as a person but hated kissing him—I can still conjure up the feeling of disgust. And I knew it wasn't him. Objectively, he smelled nice. I liked him. But kissing him felt all sorts of wrong to me. After we broke up, I didn't have any sort of relationship in high school, which was fine because I was so busy with academics, sports, and extracurricular activities. I went to an all-women's college, and there, I again wondered if I might be attracted to women. I experimented a bit my freshman year but felt the same feeling I'd had with my high school boyfriend. It just didn't feel right.
Again, I was super-busy and had lots of friends, so it was really easy to ignore the fact that I wasn't attracted to anyone. I thought that my romantic life would fall into place after I graduated, once life slowed down a little.
MORE: 10 Little Things Connected Couples Do
But after graduation was when it became obvious that I was different from the majority of my friends. Suddenly, I was working with men, I was meeting a lot of men at parties, my friends were going on dates and comparing their experiences…and I just didn't want to. I threw myself into work, made jokes about becoming a cat lady, and generally enjoyed my life in my 20s. Sure, friends had boyfriends or girlfriends, but everyone was generally on the same plane.
It wasn't until I hit 30 that things changed dramatically. Everyone seemed to be getting married and having kids, and I was still a virgin. I'd been on a few incredibly awkward dates, but none had developed beyond that. I was good friends with a core group of people at work; we'd go to happy hours and do things on the weekends. But then I noticed I was spending most weekends by myself: Everyone else was with someone.
I had seen a few therapists, and a few seemed to think that my aversion to intimacy was based on something in my past. But I knew it wasn't. It was just who I was. It wasn't until I was in my mid-30s that I found a therapist who could move beyond the why and just see my situation at face value. She asked what I was missing by not being intimate. The answer? Companionship. I was really lonely when I saw my friends couple up because that meant I inevitably ended up spending more time by myself. (Feeling lonely is as unhealthy as smoking 15 cigarettes a day
So that therapist urged me to seek out companionship, rather than trying to find a romantic partner. Realizing that it was OK to not want a relationship was so incredibly freeing. So I began following my passions, including signing up for a 50-mile bike race and pursuing choral music.
It was in that music group that I met Glen.* We were friends at first, but what I loved was that he totally met me on my level. With other men, I always felt this pressure, like, OK, we're having fun talking now, but what will happen if he wants to kiss me? But I never felt that with Glen. At this point I knew I was asexual. I researched it online, and I brought it up with my therapist, who was hesitant with labels.
One time, Glen and I were alone in his apartment. We were watching movies, and I was like, I know this is the night that something should happen. If I was normal, it would. My heart was hammering, and I told him: "I think I'm asexual."
"I am, too," he responded.
We both laughed. I think we hugged. And after that, it was just understood that we were together.
Because we were in a relationship, we figured we should at least try having sex and thought that maybe if we did it, the feelings would follow. But it never felt right—not that we were expecting fireworks; we sort of approached it from a scientific point of view—so we gave it up pretty quickly. I was actually glad to no longer be a virgin, but to me, sex was something that I was perfectly fine skipping and didn't feel like I was missing out on. I guess the way to describe it is that some people love pizza. But does a person who never eats pizza have a less-great life? I don't think so. If they've tried it and decide for themselves they don't like it, what's the harm?
We did have sex when we decided to conceive our baby. We used ovulation prediction kits and had a "just get it done" mentality. It was actually a really strained point in our marriage. Up until then, it was easy to feel like our marriage was "real," but when we had to schedule sex, it was like, what are we doing? How can we survive over the long term? And can we be a model of "real" love to our child?
Luckily, it took only a few months of trying, and once I got pregnant, things settled back into our version of normal. In some ways, that was the most physical time of our marriage. We ended up falling asleep in the same bed more often than not (we have separate bedrooms), and we were pretty touchy-feely. I asked for a lot of backrubs.
And now? We have a 3-year-old, and we're figuring things out. We are definitely deeply in love. And as I notice some of our couple friends drift apart from each other, I'm so glad that we have a solid connection that doesn't depend on sex.
I wish I'd known asexuality was a thing when I was younger. I wish I'd known you can still find love and companionship on your own terms. I'm not sure what we'll tell our daughter about our relationship; I doubt she will ever ask or if it'll ever come up. But I know I won't be one of those moms who asks their child who they "like" every week.
Because I'm proof that just because you don't "like" anyone doesn't mean you can't fall in love.
*Names have been changed

A fitness blogger's honest Instagram post is making headlines for all the right reasons.
Anna Victoria, co-founder of the Fit Body Guide, got real when she shared an unedited photo of her arm cellulite in harsh lighting. She positioned it beside another photo of her fit and trim arm to show how lighting can affect the appearance of our skin.
7 FOODS IN EVERY SKINNY GIRL'S KITCHEN
Lighting. Is. Everything. 99% of pictures you see on social media are taken in the best possible lighting and that ain't no accident ?? so when I got into the elevator with the lighting on the right, I zoned in on the cellulite on the back of my arms. Yes, cellulite on your arms is a thing! I've had it since the beginning of my journey and while it's lightened up since then, it's still not totally gone... because I'm human. Seriously, girls, stop thinking you're the only one with cellulite and that it's some kind of disease! Yes, it absolutely can be reduced through healthy diet, exercise and proper water intake, but another component which you can't control is genetics, and just being human. It's not bad to want to reduce the sight of cellulite just like it's not bad to want to lose weight and feel more confident overall, but don't set out to lose weight JUST to have less cellulite. It can be a cherry on top of all the other amazing benefits. If you ask me how to reduce the appearance of cellulite, my answer will be: healthy diet, regular exercise and proper water intake - that's it. I will not suggest creams or wraps or whatever else the current fad is because those are only short term fixes (IF that..) and perpetuate the idea that health/results can be found in a bottle/package. So, do I love the look of my arms on the right? No, but I don't hate it or myself for it, either. And you shouldn't either ?? #fbggirls #realtalk #cellulite www.annavictoria.com/guides
A post shared by Snapchat: AnnaVictoriaFit (@annavictoria) on Feb 19, 2017 at 12:34pm PST
"Lighting. Is. Everything," she wrote in the now-viral post, which, since being posted about two days ago, had received nearly 36,000 likes as of Wednesday morning. "99% of pictures you see on social media are taken in the best possible lighting and that ain't no accident."
While diet, lifestyle and genetics can all play a role in the formation of cellulite, Victoria had a simple retort for any potential critics: "Yes, cellulite on your arms is a thing!"
"I've had it since the beginning of my journey," she wrote, "and while it's lightened up since then, it's still not totally gone… because I'm human."
THESE ARE THE FOODS THAT CAN HELP FIGHT WRINKLES NATURALLY

It's easy to trip up on our diet and exercise goals when holed up in an office all day. But that doesn't mean you have to surrender in the battle of the bulge.
HOW EATING CARBS CAN HELP YOU MEET YOUR WEIGHT LOSS GOALS
Fox News spoke with Lauren Blake, a dietitian at The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center, and Angel Planells, a Seattle-based dietitian and spokesman for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, about some common diet mistakes people make at work, and how to fix them:
1. You sit for hours on end. Sitting too long can really sabotage weight loss goals because every movement counts, Blake said. Try taking the stairs instead of the elevator, or go for a brief walk around the office every 30 – 45 minutes, Planells recommended.
2. You aren't prepared for a hunger attack. If you don't have healthy snacks on hand, you're more likely to head for the vending machine or mindlessly reach into the office candy jar. Blake and Planells recommended keeping healthy snacks like fruit and nuts on hand.
6 WAYS TO LOSE MORE WEIGHT AS YOU AGE
3. You suffer from on-the-job stress. Chronic stress can trigger cortisol, a stress hormone that leads to fat storage and sugar cravings, Blake said. Try taking deep breaths, giving yourself small breaks, or going for a walk to manage your stress levels, she recommended.
4. You eat at your desk. Eating at our desks "is a big no-no," Planells told Fox News. When you do so, you're not as mindful of what you're eating, and you may overeat, he explained. Opt for a common dining area instead.
5. You don't get enough sunshine. Studies have shown sun exposure is associated with a lower BMI, so try to get some sunlight throughout the day, Blake recommended.

Losing weight shouldn't mean giving up all the foods you love. Try these small changes, and you may notice big results.
1. Spice up your coffee. With cinnamon, that is. Sweetening your drink with a dash of cinnamon instead of sugar and sugary creamer can save upward of 80 calories per drink.
2. Have egg-y French toast (or pancakes). Order your eggs over-easy, and use that delicious egg yolk to add moisture to your breakfast — no butter or syrup needed! You'll get a bonus boost of protein, too. Need some recipe inspo? Try this egg-topped Protein-Rich Cherry French Toast, with no added sugar.
THE 14 HEALTHIEST ITEMS AT YOUR FAVORITE FAST FOOD RESTAURANTS
3. Make hummus your new favorite condiment. Next time you have a baked potato, top it with hummus instead of butter. "Don't dismiss this until you have tried it," Keri Gans, RDN, author of "The Small Change Diet," told Fox News. "Creamy hummus adds a lot of flavor to a baked potato, with a lot less calories than butter." That's 77 calories less per Tablespoon, to be exact. "The bonus is you also get fiber and protein from the chickpeas," Gans added.
4. Turn on slow jams during dinner. "The speed of music influences how fast we eat," Christy Brissette, MS, RD, owner of 80 Twenty Nutrition in Toronto, told Fox News. "Quick-serve restaurants sometimes use this trick to get people in and out of their seats faster." Playing slow music could have the opposite effect — helping you eat more slowly and realize you're full faster.
WHAT TO ORDER AT OLIVE GARDEN IF YOU'RE ON A DIET
5. Vinegar down your salad dressing. Dilute your favorite salad dressing with balsamic vinegar. "You'll pucker up for the intense flavor, while practically slashing your calories in half," Bonnie Taub-Dix, RDN, author of "Read It Before You Eat It" told Fox News.
6. Eat fragrant cheese. Yes, this means you can eat cheese and lose weight! "But choose the super flavorful varieties so a little goes a long way," Brissette advised. "Try Manchego or Parmesan, so just a sprinkle adds tons of flavor to your salad or pasta." You won't need those big chunks of cheese you might be tempted to add when using less flavorful versions.

A new preliminary study reveals a way to burn more fat—but you have to be willing to restrict all your daily eating to a 6-hour window. Researchers found that participants who took in all their daily calories between 8am and 2pm burned 6% more fat than those who spread out their calorie intake from 8am to 8pm, LiveScience reports.
The two groups ate the same meals, the Sydney Morning Herald reports. "Your body's fat-burning ability peaks after you've been fasting for 12 to 14 hours," the lead author of the study explains.
That's because, for the first 12 hours of fasting, your body burns glycogen (a molecule that stores sugar). After 12 hours, it starts to burn fat stores.
However, researchers don't consider the 6% difference statistically significant, which is why the results are considered preliminary until further research is done. The study also found that those who ate during a 6-hour window experienced more stable hunger levels than those in the 12-hour group.

Following a diet that mimics fasting may reduce risk factors for disease in generally healthy people, according to a small study.
Dr. Min Wei of UCLA's Longevity Institute and colleagues tested the effects of the fasting-mimicking diet on various risk factors for diabetes, heart disease, cancer or other conditions.
The diet (FMD; brand name ProLon) is low in calories, sugars and protein but high in unsaturated fats. Forty-eight study participants ate normally for three months while 52 ate FMD for five days each month and ate normally the rest of the time. After three months, the groups switched regimens. Although all participants were considered healthy, some had high blood pressure, low levels of "good" cholesterol, and other risk factors.

The commercial weight loss industry has ballooned to an estimated worth of $2.5 billion, but few scientifically sound studies exist that prove the efficacy of these programs, a review of 4,200 related research papers reveals.
The report, published Monday in the journal Annals of Internal Medicine, found that among 32 popular commercial weight loss programs available in the U.S., only 11 have been studied using a randomized controlled trial, the model thought to be the gold standard for scientific research. And of those 11 diets, only two— Weight Watchers and Jenny Craig— indicated that people who used the programs lost more weight after 12 months than people following their own diet.
Researchers conducted the study as a follow-up to a 2005 systematic review of commercial and proprietary weight loss programs, which was based on results from three randomized controlled trials, and suggested that only Weight Watchers resulted in modest weight loss. The new study of 11 diets was based on 39 trials, all of which ran for at least 12 weeks.
"Losing weight and keeping it off is a top concern for most Americans," lead study author Kimberly Gudzune, assistant medicine professor at Johns Hopkins University, told FoxNews.com. "I'm a physician myself, so I thought it was really important to give patients and their physicians guidance on programs to show which can really help them lose weight."
Two-thirds of American adults are overweight or obese, conditions that increase the chance for high blood pressure and type 2 diabetes. About 63 percent of U.S. adults have attempted to lose weight at some point in their lives, while 29 percent currently report trying to lose weight, according to a 2011 Gallup poll. That poll also indicated that Americans looking to shed pounds are more likely to try dieting than they are to exercise.
A lack of regulation and research
No federal legislation requires commercial weight loss companies to provide scientific evidence that their programs work, but the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) recommended in 1999 that these companies conduct studies to do so. One reason for a lack of study and regulation, Gudzune said, is up until late 2013, the American Medical Association hadn't even treated obesity as a medical condition.
"It was viewed as an individual problem and an issue of willpower," she said, "and over the past 10 to 20 years, we've learned so much about the factors not just on a personal level, but that the environment and physiologic factors can contribute to this picture. It's more complicated than we thought."
Christine Santori, a registered dietician and program manager for the Center for Weight Management at North Shore-LIJ Syosset Hospital, in Syosset, New York, said it's the attrition rates that stand in the way of good research in this arena.
For example, the Johns Hopkins team's review of the Nutrisystem diet, a meal replacement program, helped participants lose 5.7 percent more weight compared to counseling and education. But that weight loss was studied only over a period of six months; no research has analyzed whether Nutrisystem helps patients sustain their weight beyond that time frame.
"Most of our patients come in with a long list of prior weight loss attempts, unsuccessful in most of them," Santori, who was not involved in the Johns Hopkins study, told FoxNews.com. "What I hear over and over again, is, 'I don't know how to do it.' Most of the time it's about behavioral strategies and the changes they should be making. It's a lot of program solving. It's setting them up for long-term success."
'Modest' weight loss
To sift through research, Gudzune and her team used Medline, the biggest database for medical literature, the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, and the websites of the weight loss programs. They pinpointed plans with a behavioral and social support element, be it an online forum or a coach, as well as those that emphasized nutrition.
While Weight Watchers and Jenny Craig were the only two diets studied with a randomized, controlled trial that showed participants lost weight over one year, those losses were modest. In 12 months' time, on Jenny Craig, participants lost an average of 15 pounds, while those people on Weight Watchers lost an average of 12 pounds.
"Both seem small and I think would be surprising to many patients— those usually translate into a 3 to 5 percent weight loss for the starting weight for most of the patients in these trials," Gudzune said.
The average weight loss for Jenny Craig and Weight Watchers participants was modest, but guidelines from the American Heart Association, the American College of Cardiology and the Obesity Society show that sustained weight loss of that amount can lead to improvements in blood sugar and blood pressure.
"That may not be the end goal for many patients, but it's an important place to start," Gudzune said.
The big picture
Mitchell S. Roslin, chief of obesity surgery at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City, who wasn't involved in the research, said he wasn't surprised by the study's findings, and that they confirm what doctors and experts in the weight loss industry already know.
"I think that the bottom line is commercial diets may work for people who are health conscious, but they're not going to work for people who are less health conscious and need it the most," Roslin said. "We keep on missing the big point."
"Yesterday, I saw three kids between 18 and 23— all disabled from obesity," he said. "They're never going to have a job. I don't think sending them to Weight Watchers is really going to work."
Although researchers didn't compare marketing tactics against diet results, Gudzune said companies that include a label showing the average amount of weight loss on any given diet— rather than using patient testimonials like before and after photos— would help give potential customers a better idea of what they're walking into "because it is a financial commitment for consumers, and then they would know exactly what they're paying for."
Other diets studied in the review include low-calorie meal replacement plans— HMR, Medifast and OPTIFAST—in addition to five self-directed programs—Atkins, SlimFast, and Internet-based programs Biggest Loser Club, eDiets and Lose It! The program prices ranged from $0 for Web-based weight loss apps to between $570 and $682 per month for programs that require customers to purchase replacement meals.

Dear acne, you suck. Seriously, we thought the breakouts would be over soon after AP Calculus. But it's actually something that affects women and men in their 20s and 30s, and even well past their 50s. It's just not fair (throws childlike temper tantrum). And if you thought blackheads and whiteheads were annoying, the deep painful pimples that often pop up in adult acne are much more aggravating—and harder to get rid of. So, we talked to dermatologists to find out which acne treatments are the most effective on all types of pimples.
First, let's talk about what causes acne. Pimples form when the oil and dead skin cells on your skin combine to form a plug that blocks the pores. "As the P. acnes bacteria that naturally live on skin overgrow within this plugged follicle, the area becomes inflamed and this is when you start to see papules, pustules, and cystic lesions," RealSelf dermatologist Sejal Shah, M.D., tells SELF. The treatments ahead work to exfoliate away dead skin cells, suck up excess oil, stop inflammation, and kill the P. acnes bacteria. There are even a few treatments that target hormonal acne specifically.
Related: 3 Things You Can Do Every Day to Help Acne-Prone Skin
All the dermatologists we talked to agreed that there is no one-size-fits-all solution to acne. Every patient responds to treatments differently, and sometimes it can get worse before it gets better. But with the help of your dermatologist, you can find an acne treatment regimen that works for you. And, yes, we do stress how helpful it is to work with a derm to get it right.

You brush your teeth after every meal and floss on the regular before going to sleep. But if you're not taking a few minutes out of your day to brush your tongue as well, your oral health habits need an upgrade.
"More than 700 different bacterial species live in the mouth," explains Vera W.L. Tang, D.D.S., clinical assistant professor in the department of periodontics and implant dentistry at New York University. Not all of these microbes are harmful. But when the bad ones set up shop and multiply in the crevices around the papillae, or small bumps, on the surface of the tongue, they can inflict some real damage.
(Hit the reset button—and burn fat like crazy with The Body Clock Diet!)
How's that? Think of your tongue as a bacteria sponge, spreading bad bacteria throughout the mouth and causing problems and disease, says Barbara L. McClatchie, D.D.S., founding member of the American Academy of Oral Systemic Health and owner of Complete Health Dentistry in Columbus, Ohio. What kind of problems are we talking about here? Consider these conditions, from the gross and embarrassing to the potentially life threatening.
"Bad breath is the number one problem associated with not brushing your tongue," says Steve Cook, D.D.S., owner of Austin City Dental in Austin, Texas. How it happens: The bacteria making a home on your tongue begin doing what an overgrowth of bacteria everywhere do—give off a foul stank. The odor-causing bugs tend to lurk in the back of the tongue, he adds, which is why its important to brush back there if you want to get rid of the funk.
RELATED: 'I DRANK A GALLON OF WATER EVERY DAY FOR A MONTH—HERE'S WHAT HAPPENED'
When you don't brush your tongue, a nasty coating of bacteria, food particles, and dead skin cells called a biofilm can cover up your taste buds, leaving your sense of taste less sharp, says McClatchie. Get rid of the biofilm and your taste buds will get going again.
We're not making it up. This condition arises when the papillae on your tongue get stained from leftover food or drink particles, like coffee, and the particles are never brushed away, says Cook. That gives the entire tongue a dark, furry appearance. It's otherwise harmless, and once you start tongue brushing, it should disappear.
RELATED: THE 10 LARGEST, WIDEST, LONGEST, HAIRIEST BODY PARTS YOU'LL EVER SEE
Medically known as oral thrush, it can happen when the bacteria levels in your mouth get out of whack—say, from not brushing your tongue—and naturally occurring yeast grows out of control. The result: white patches on the tongue, says McClatchie. An antifungal medication can cure it, and regular tongue brushing should keep it from returning.
Bacteria buildup on your tongue can spread to your teeth, causing gingivitis, or red, inflamed gums. If it's not treated, the inflammation can advance to periodontal disease, when the gums pull away from the teeth and the space in between becomes infected. Your teeth may fall out, but even more worrisome is that the chronic inflammation caused by periodontal disease is linked to a higher risk of heart attack, stroke, and miscarriage, says McClatchie.
RELATED: 7 DENTISTS SHARE THE MOST HORRIFYING THINGS THEY'VE EVER SEEN AT WORK
By now, you'll probably want to grab your toothbrush and give your tongue a good scrubbing. Here's the right way to do it: Starting at the back of the tongue, gently brush toward the front, then go side-to-side. You don't have to use toothpaste, but it'll probably feel more comfortable, and the abrasiveness of toothpaste can help make cleaning more effective, says McClatchie. Do it at least once a day for a few minutes at a pop, but ideally twice, she adds.
Oh, and you've probably heard of tongue scrapers: tools found in the pharmacy dental aisle that are specially designed to remove bacteria, food particles, and other gunk from your tongue. While it's perfectly fine to use one, all you really need for effective tongue brushing is a plain-old non-tricked-out toothbrush, says Cook.
This article originally appeared on WomensHealthMag.com.

Actress Kelly Ripa and husband Mark Consuelos arrives at the Vanity Fair Oscar Party in Beverly Hills, California February 28, 2016.
(REUTERS/Danny Molosho)
Kelly Ripa made headlines earlier this month after saying on "Live with Kelly" that her husband, Mark Consuelos, is "mean" after sex, and while she backpedaled Wednesday by clarifying he is simply "disinterested" afterward, the damage had already been done. Ripa's Feb. 9 admission, whether in jest or not, has been trending on various news sites, including this one, ever since.
Regardless of Ripa's intention, her observations about her husband's post-sex behavior beg the question: Do men really get disinterested after sex? And if so, why?
Popular science's explanation for men rolling over after ejaculation is a hormonal response alone, Dr. Raj Dasgupta, a professor of pulmonary and sleep medicine at the University of Southern California, and a spokesperson for the American Academy of Sleep Medicine, told Fox News.
THIS IS YOUR BRAIN ON PORNOGRAPHY
However, some experts argue the answer isn't so simple.
In fact, Dasgupta said, the conditions under which couples have sex often have as much to do with whether men or women get sleepy after sex as do their postcoital hormonal differences.
"It's a balance of both," Dasgupta said.
Dasgupta explained that most couples have sex at night, potentially in cool, quiet rooms, likely in a comfortable bed — in other words, the perfect environment for sleeping. And for those men who may have sleep apnea, the aforementioned conditions can create the perfect environment for dozing off.
"If you have a male who has undiagnosed sleep apnea, they're gonna be more tired than the average person, so it doesn't take a lot to tip them over," Dasgupta said.
According to data from the Cleveland Clinic, that may be a fair assessment. The hospital estimates nearly 22 million Americans suffer from sleep apnea — a condition marked by shallow breathing that impacts quality sleep, and can lead to drowsiness and fatigue — and men over age 40 are primarily at risk.
Hormones may also play a role in human behavior after sex, though.
9 FOODS THAT CAN HELP BOOST YOUR SEX DRIVE NATURALLY
Much of the research surrounding hormonal interactions following sex involves animals, Dasgupta said, but compared to women, men do have more of the hormone prolactin, which secretes after ejaculation and leads to what's called a relative refractory period. That post-stimulated stage is what animal studies have linked with sleepiness.
Also after ejaculation, the stress hormone cortisol decreases, while oxytocin, the "feel-good" hormone, increases — promoting relaxation. And, if you're in a dark room, the hormone melatonin, which promotes sleep, increases, further encouraging men to fall into slumber, Dasgupta said.
At nighttime, the hormone vasopressin, or ADH (antidiuretic hormone) is also secreted after ejaculation. This is the same hormone that prevents us from getting up at night to use the bathroom, Dasgupta said, and it, too, promotes relaxation.
"These are hormones that have been associated with ejaculation at night," said Dasgupta, stressing that much of the research does not draw a causative relationship, just a link. "They may be some of the answers to why males are more sleepy at night, but it's always gonna be a combo of the social aspects and some of the hormones together."
THIS SWEDISH POLITICIAN THINKS WORKERS SHOULD GET PAID SEX BREAKS
Ian Kerner, a licensed psychotherapist and sex counselor, told Fox News the answer may simply lie in the fundamental differences between men and women's sexual response cycle.
When men become aroused, Kerner said, blood surges to the genitals and eventually leads to ejaculation. Upon ejaculation, that blood flows out and men go into the aforementioned refractory period. Some men, usually those who are young, can go back to having sex immediately, while older men may take days, weeks or month until they're rearing to go again.
"But the main thing is, after a man ejaculates, he returns to the pre-aroused state," Kerner explained, "and the neurochemical firework festival of orgasm also produces sort of an effect of relaxation and sleepiness."
After women reach orgasm, on the other hand, it takes longer for their blood flow to leave the genitals, so they do not return as quickly as men to a pre-aroused state, Kerner said.
Instead, he explained, "They go into a semi-aroused state, and that's why a lot of women have the capacity to experience multiple orgasms, and remain a little more connected, interested and partner-focused after sex."
Meanwhile during orgasm, pent-up muscular stress in men and women gets released, which may lead men and women to drift into a relaxing state. But it's the difference in men and women's aroused states that sometimes causes men to appear sleepier than women, Kerner said.
EXPERTS SAY THIS IS THE BEST WAY TO FLIRT
That research, he pointed out, comes from researchers William Masters and Virginia Johnson, who studied 10,000 hours of male and female orgasms by watching couples in 1950s. They are best known for their research on the human sexual response, on which they published a book of the same name in 1966.
The hit Showtime production "Masters of Sex" is thought to be based on Masters and Johnson's lives.
And yet, despite what's known about how male and female sexual response cycles differ, Kerner said he has counseled couples where the woman will be the one more prone to falling asleep, or either sex taking issue with his or her partner checking email or jumping out of bed after doing the dirty deed.
"So I think it's gender-based, but it's also relationship based," Kerner said.

Diets are all about cutting calories, right?
Well, maybe not.
If you've ever tried following a commercial diet, you know counting calories and weighing yourself can derail your goals completely. And while it may seem like restricting your intake of food is the best way to shed pounds, consuming enough calories is actually key.
To get the scoop on the foods that can help you get to that target weight, Fox News talked to Lauren Blake, RD, LDN, manager of sports nutrition at The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center, to find out how to eat your way to the body of your dreams.
Despite previous attitudes toward fat, the healthy kind shouldn't be your foe, a 2016 study published in The Lancet Diabetes & Endocrinology suggests. Avocado contains healthy fats that can help you stay full and satisfied, Blake said. "I like to call avocado nature's butter," Blake, who recommended smearing it on a piece of whole-wheat toast, told Fox News. "If I don't have avocado in my house, it's time to go to the store!"
A 2015 study published in the journal BMJ found that people whose diets were rich in flavonoids — which are present in foods like berries, onions and even wine — tended to gain less weight as they aged. Blake is also a fan of them for their high fiber and water content. "They're a bit lower on the glycemic index, so they're not gonna spike your blood sugar as quickly," she said.
6 PANTRY STAPLES THAT MAY HELP WARD OFF ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE
Lentils and beans
Fibrous foods like lentils and beans help you stay fuller longer, Blake explained. "Fiber comes from all plant foods, and typically, plants have more calories so you can eat more of them," she said. "I'd rather be told I can eat more of something than less of something!" Research backs up that notion: A 2015 study published in the Annals of Internal Medicine suggested simply focusing on fiber may offer more benefits than following a more restrictive diet plan.
Lean protein
Fatty fish like salmon, which is rich in omega-3 fatty acids, and lean, non-dark meat like chicken or turkey can also help ward off unwanted pounds, Blake said. Its protein, whether from plants or animals, can help keep you full, she explained. Part of the Mediterranean diet, lean proteins have long been hailed as powerful weight-loss tools, several studies suggest.
9 FOODS TO HELP BOOST YOUR LIBIDO NATURALLY
Non-starchy veggies
For weight loss, Blake advises her clients to fill half of their plates with non-starchy vegetables like bell peppers, cauliflower, mushrooms, broccoli, asparagus and Brussels sprouts. Starchy veggies, on the other hand, include potatoes, peas and corn. In a 2015 study published in PLOS One, Harvard University researchers found that, after 24 years, men and women who consumed non-starchy produce, which is higher in fiber and lower in carbs, tended to lose weight. Like berries, non-starchy foods are lower on the glycemic index, meaning they lead to fewer blood sugar spikes and less hunger.
Whole grains
Although wheat and bread alone have become topics for debate in holistic wellness circles, Blake said whole grains — which are also rich in fiber — are an important part of a healthy diet. That doesn't mean you should binge on bread, though! "I love things like brown rice and oatmeal," Blake said, "[because] those are really great whole grains that typically have a little more fiber than bread." If you're going to opt for bread, Blake recommended looking for the 100 percent whole-wheat variety.
7 WRINKLE-FIGHTING FOODS PROBABLY ALREADY IN YOUR KITCHEN
Dark chocolate
Also rich in flavonoids and healthy fats, dark chocolate has become somewhat of a superfood for weight loss in recent years. Research has linked its consumption to everything from curbed sweet cravings to reduced blood sugar spikes. Blake suggested enjoying a piece of the treat in bar form or mixing dark cocoa powder into a protein-packed smoothie with almond or peanut butter. Go ahead, indulge!

Yes, you can have a hearty, healthy-ish meal at Olive Garden! Just watch out for words like "unlimited," which pop up over and over on this menu — even too much salad and breadsticks can result in that over-stuffed feeling. And be wary of anything with pesto, garlic sauce, or alfredo, as those tend to be higher in fat and calories, Tara Collingwood, MS, RDN, official nutritionist for runDisney, told Fox News. Now go ahead and try one of these meals, approved by health nuts across the country!
Minestrone Soup and House Salad with Grilled Chicken Olive Garden is known for its soup and salad, so here's a version that amps up your meal's nutrition. When you start with the minestrone soup, the lowest-calorie (110 per serving) soup on the menu, you may fill up and eat a smaller meal. "Studies have found that warm liquid calories are more filling than cold ones, which is great news if you love soup," Maggie Moon, MS, RDN, author of "The MIND Diet," told Fox News. As for the salad, request the dressing on the side — the fat it contains helps you absorb important vitamins, so go with a few drizzles. A side of grilled chicken adds lean protein to your meal. The soup-and-salad combo comes with breadsticks, but limit yourself to just one because each has 140 calories and 460 milligrams of sodium. "This meal still has a lot of salt, so drink plenty of water," Moon advised.
THE HEALTHIEST ITEMS AT YOUR FAVORITE FAST FOOD RESTAURANTS
Herb-Grilled Salmon The salmon boasts heart-healthy omega-3 fats and is an excellent source of protein. Plus, the calories, fat, and sodium are lower than those of many other Olive Garden dishes. Order not one but two sides of broccoli because a double portion is only 40 calories yet provides 4 grams (16 percent of the daily value) of fiber, Tammy Lakatos Shames, RDN, and Lyssie Lakatos, RDN, dietitians, personal trainers, and co-authors of "The Nutrition Twins' Veggie Cure," told Fox News. "Broccoli contains sulforaphane, which has been shown to prevent and fight a wide variety of cancers in test tube research," they said.
Cucina Mia! This "pasta your way" option lets you customize a healthier pasta bowl by choosing the type of pasta, sauce and protein. Opt for whole-grain linguine for extra fiber, marinara sauce in lieu of a creamy or oily one, and grilled chicken or sautéed shrimp for a lower-fat protein. Go with the shrimp option, and that's 550 calories and 13 grams of fat for the whole dish. "If you overload your dish with heavy, creamy sauces and ingredients, you could be getting a lot of extra calories, fat and sodium," Bonnie Taub-Dix, RDN, author of "Read It Before You Eat It," told Fox News. Case in point: The asiago garlic alfredo sauce alone contains 940 calories and 91 grams of fat!
HOW EATING CARBS CAN HELP YOU LOSE WEIGHT
Cod Piccata Here's a dish that offers 37 grams of filling protein for 370 calories, one of the lowest entrée calorie counts on the menu. "Since the protein takes longer to digest than carbohydrate-filled meals, it tides you over longer and helps to keep hunger at bay," The Nutrition Twins said. Lower the saturated fat by asking the kitchen to go lighter on the butter — and do the same with the salt for a lower-sodium dish.
Chicken Margherita Ask for a lunch portion of this grilled chicken dish, and you're looking at a meal for 370 calories. You also get a hearty serving of protein, at well over half the daily value. While the sodium content isn't low, at 700 milligrams, it is one of the lowest-sodium counts on the menu.

Losing your hair? You may want to blame your genes: A recent study published in the journal PLOS helped identify over 200 different genetic variants that are associated with hair loss. As part of the study, researchers examined data from over 52,000 male participants ages 40 to 69.
The most common type of hair loss is due to genetics, Dr. Jerry Shapiro, professor in the Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology at NYU Langone Medical Center, told Fox News. (Other, less common causes include vitamin or mineral deficiencies, autoimmune diseases and thyroid problems.
That said, there are a few different ways doctors can help treat hair loss that occurs with age:
1. Topical solutions and foam Physicians can prescribe a topical solution or foam such as minoxidil, Dr. Shapiro said, which is applied directly to the scalp.
But don't expect immediate results: "Everyone has to keep in mind that when you're dealing with hair loss, the hair cycle is slow," said Dr. Alexis McKee, assistant professor of endocrinology at Saint Louis University School of Medicine. She told Fox News it could take six months or more for hair to grow back.
Side effects of minoxidil may include a dry or itchy scalp, flaking, or skin irritation, according to information from the U.S. National Library of Medicine.
2. Prescription pills Another option? Doctors may prescribe finasteride, a pill taken once a day, Shapiro said. This treatment, however, comes with side effects as well: One 2015 review in the Journal of Mind and Medical Sciences suggests the drug may be linked with depression and sexual dysfunction.
3. Platelet-rich plasma (PRP) Doctors may also decide to use platelet-rich plasma (PRP) to combat hair loss. In this procedure, doctors draw blood from a patient, spin it down, take the plasma and platelets, and then inject these into the patient's scalp, Shapiro said.
Side effects include soreness at the injection site, redness and headache, according to a 2014 study published in the Journal of Cutaneous and Aesthetic Surgery.

Television personality Kim Kardashian poses at the premiere of "The Promise" in Los Angeles, California U.S., April 12, 2017.
(REUTERS/Mario Anzuoni)
Last week, Kim Kardashian posted an ad on Instagram. Breaking news? Not at all. But what's unusual is if you look closely, you'll notice it builds on a previous post promoting the morning sickness drug Diclegis. When she first posted about the medication in 2015, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) came after her because it didn't mention the associated risks. Kardashian apparently learned her lesson, and this time around she listed the side effects and added #ad to the first line.
4 NATURAL REMEDIES FOR WEIGHT LOSS
That's exactly what the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) is pushing for. Earlier this month, it sent more than 90 influencers, celebrities, athletes and marketers a refresher on the rules of what they can and cannot do when promoting products on social media. Essentially, influencers are obligated to be transparent about any business or family connections, whether they're being paid to promote the product and if they were given the product for free.
In the letter sent to these influencers, the FTC said the posts must be labeled as ads within the first three lines of the caption and need to be more clear than simply tagging #sp or #partner or sliding the necessary hashtags in at the end of a long caption where they easily get lost.
THE MOST COMMON VITAMINS PEOPLE OVERDOSE ON
From an advertiser's perspective, there's a big upside to working with influencers. "Millennials are actively engaged on social media on a daily basis, and it's a great way to reach thousands of potential customers," Samantha Wormser, a public relations manager at Power Digital Marketing, told Fox News. Plus, it's easy. "It takes less time to publish a tweet or Instagram Story than it does to shoot a commercial," Dee Nuncio, director of social media for Mod Op, told Fox News. And, since fans usually react to social media posts instantly, advertisers get real-time feedback. The influencers get a lot out of it, too. Celebrities with millions of followers can charge upwards of a few hundred thousand dollars for one social post, Wormser said.
The Kardashian clan is notorious for sneakily weaving paid posts into their feeds, but they're not the only ones. Michael Phelps has posted ambiguously about Beats by Dre, Bella Hadid recently plugged Postmates in a post that's since been deleted, and Jenny McCarthy's feed is filled with ads promoting everything from hair extensions to jewelry.

Free gym membership, snacks … and sex breaks?
A Swedish politician has proposed what may be the most unique benefit heard of after he argued workers should be allotted a paid hour-long break so they could have sex with their partners.
Quartz reported that Per-Erik Muskos, a local council member for Övertorneå in northern Sweden, believes couples in the country do not get enough quality time together.
The 42-year-old politician cited sex's health benefits as a primary reason for the paid break.
THIS IS YOUR BRAIN ON PORNOGRAPHY
As Quartz reported, Swedes already enjoy several work benefits American companies don't typically afford — among them, 480 days of paid parental leave, which partners can share, and two or three daily coffee breaks. According to the OECD Better Life Index, only 1 percent of Swedes work overtime.
Perhaps that's why Sweden consistently ranks among the happiest nations in the world.
All of that begs the question: Do swedes really need a sex break?
While some critics have suggested enforcing the policy would be difficult (as some people could lie and take a walk instead), from a research standpoint, Miskos may have a fair point.
9 FOODS TO HELP BOOST YOUR SEX DRIVE NATURALLY
Studies suggest sex can help boost your memory, improve your immunity, and lower your blood pressure, just to name a few possible benefits.
"It's about having better relationships," Muskos, who said he "saw no reason" that the proposal wouldn't get approved, reportedly said.

Mark Consuelos and Kelly Ripa want to set the record straight on what really happens between the sheets.
Less than two weeks after Ripa claimed her husband is "mean" after sex, she revisited the topic on Wednesday during "Live with Kelly."
"I'm sorry, I was joking, this is a funny, irreverent show, I didn't realize it would become trending news," said the 46-year-old host.
KELLY RIPA'S BEDROOM CONFESSION
Ripa first made the shocking claim during a Feb. 9 taping, which was co-hosted with Consuelos.
"He's immediately mean to me afterwards and I don't like that," said Ripa at the time while sitting next to her husband. "I think it's bizarre. He becomes short with me, like irritated."
"I'm like, 'Oh, now you're irritated?'" added Ripa. "You were so loving three minutes ago!"
As you can tell @kellyripa is super excited I'm cohosting tomorrow AM
A post shared by Mark Consuelos (@instasuelos) on Feb 21, 2017 at 4:56pm PST
While Consuelos initially laughed off the remarks, calling them the "most ridiculous thing" he's ever heard, he was also surprised when the commentary became a trending topic online.
KELLY RIPA BOYCOTTS SHOW
"I fly to Dallas and my phone starts buzzing and people are like, 'Dude, are you mean to your wife after you know?' I'm like, 'What are you talking about?'" Consuelos explained. "I get on set the next day, I'm shooting in Dallas and the trending stories on my news app on my iPhone and it comes up, Mark Consuelos is mean to his wife after… grownup time. And I'm like, 'Oh my gosh, what?'"
Consuelos also confirmed that it's impossible for him to be "mean" post-intimacy if he "falls asleep afterwards."
"If disinterested means sleeping, how about satisfied and just happy, satisfied," clarified Consuelos.
However, Rip did reveal Consuelos has been extra-attentive since the taping.
ANDY COHEN CREDITS KELLY RIPA FOR SAVING HIS LIFE
"There's odd conversations like, 'Do you want to watch "The Real Housewives"?.' 'What do you want to do?,' 'Would you like pizza?,' 'Can I get you flowers?'"
The couple have been married for 20 years and are parents to Michael, 19, Lola, 15, and Joaquin, 13.

A Facebook logo on an iPad is reflected among source code on the LCD screen of a computer, in this photo illustration taken in Sarajevo June 18, 2014. (REUTERS/Dado Ruvic)
Fans of social media may say that all of that posting and liking helps connect them with others , but a new study finds that spending more time on social media platforms is actually linked to a higher likelihood of feeling socially isolated.
Social isolation — which the researchers defined as a lack of a sense of belonging, true engagement with others and fulfilling relationships — has been linked to an increased risk of illness and death , according to the study.
Currently, " mental health problems and social isolation are at epidemic levels among young adults," lead study author Dr. Brian Primack, director of the University of Pittsburgh's Center for Research on Media, Technology and Health, said in a statement. [9 Odd Ways Your Tech Devices May Injure You]
Although it's possible that increased social media use could help alleviate feelings of social isolation , increased social media use could also have the opposite effect in young adults, by limiting in-person interactions, the researchers wrote in the study, published today (March 6) in the American Journal of Preventive Medicine.

Could a Mediterranean diet keep breast cancer from coming back?
(PRNewsFoto/California Walnut Commission)
Women who've survived breast cancer and are looking to prevent a recurrence may be encouraged by news out of a major cancer conference: that adhering to a Mediterranean diet (lots of fruits, veggies, fish, and olive oil) may help fend off the disease's return, the Guardian reports.
For their experiment, revealed at the American Society of Clinical Oncology's annual meeting in Chicago, researchers at Piacenza Hospital in Italy studied two groups of women who had been treated for early breast cancer: 199 who ate Mediterranean-style (including an allowance for one alcoholic drink daily) and another 108 who ate what they usually did, but with healthy-eating input from a dietician.
After three years of following these diets, none of the ladies who went Mediterranean suffered relapses, while 11 women from the other group did. Science World Report notes these results add onto the news from another, much larger recent JAMA study that found a Mediterranean diet rich in extra-virgin olive oil led to a 68% reduction in the risk of developing breast cancer.
More From Newser
Accused in $2M Theft, NYC's 'Hottest Vegan' Felled by Pizza
What It's Like to Adopt a Baby Who's Going to Die
710K Hostess Snacks Recalled
There are drawbacks to the new study—notably, the small sample size, the relatively short follow-up time of three years, and other methodology issues, critics say. "People were asked to participate in one diet or the other," the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute's director of clinical research tells the Guardian.
"There is no information about the activity level or change in weight which, for most of the lifestyle research, one needs to be aware of." And the CEO of UK charity Breast Cancer Care says that while any info about how to possibly keep breast cancer from coming back is a "welcome addition to our toolbox," there's no universal panacea.
"Lifestyle choices like eating a well-balanced diet, [partaking in] regular exercise, and maintaining a healthy weight can all help reduce the risk of cancer coming back, but they can't prevent it completely," she notes, per the Independent.
(America is slowly but surely moving toward a more Mediterranean way of eating.)

Food is seen on a table at a restaurant at the port of El Masnou, near Barcelona May 16, 2008. REUTERS/Albert Gea
(Copyright Reuters 2015)
Extra "good fats" from nuts and olive oil in a Mediterranean diet may help older adults lose weight, or at least avoid gaining it, a Spanish study suggests.
"Our hypothesis is that not all fats are the same; we have to differentiate fats from vegetables and fats from animal sources," said lead study author Dr. Ramon Estruch of the University of Barcelona.
"Vegetable fat such as extra virgin olive oil and nuts help to reduce body weight when these foods are consumed in a healthy diet such as a Mediterranean diet," Estruch added by email.
A Mediterranean diet typically includes lots of fruits, vegetables, whole grains, legumes and olive oil. This diet also tends to favor lean sources of protein like chicken or fish over red meat, which contains more saturated fat.
While some previous research has linked a Mediterranean diet to weight loss and a reduced risk of heart disease and some cancers, scientists haven't conclusively proven that the diet itself is responsible, rather than other lifestyle choices made by people who eat this way.

According to the American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery (ASAPS), plastic surgeons performed a total of almost 2 million surgical procedures in 2015, up 7 percent from the year before.
And the plastic surgery craze shows no sign of slowing down: The number of cosmetic procedures women undergo has increased by over 500 percent since 1997, when the ASAPS began tracking this data. But with the boom in people going under the knife, are there any that plastic surgeons would actually recommend against? Fox News talked to three plastic surgeons to get their opinions on the types of surgeries they'd advise patients to pass on.
1. Injections of silicone oil Despite the fact that the Food and Drug Administration approves these injections for old acne scars, Dr. Manish Shah — a board-certified, Denver-based plastic surgeon — noted that most plastic surgeons do not recommend this procedure. That's because, if the injection gets inflected or inflamed, it can cause a lot of complications. And unlike a solid implant, it can't be removed easily, Shah told Fox News.
2. Neck lifts that remove glands below the jawline Shah also told Fox News that when men and women have face and neck lifts, two glands often stand out on the jawline. Often, patients may want these glands removed, but doing so can be dangerous, and potentially cause permanent dry mouth or bleeding that could compromise a patient's breathing at night, Shah said.
3. Ribrosections Removing a rib to get a tiny waistline is not something most plastic surgeons would recommend, Shah said. He added the surgery's risks include puncturing a lung, or damaging the kidneys and other organs.
4. Large buccal fat excisions Dr. Jason Moche, director of the Division of Facial Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery and an assistant professor of otolaryngology at Columbia University, noted that he and many other plastic surgeons are not big fans of removing the fat pads from a patient's cheeks. "They may look good initially, but ultimately patients look overly sculpted and skeletal as some of the volume depletes as they get older," Moche told Fox News.

We're usually worried about getting enough vitamins, but is it possible to ever get too much?
Turns out, it is: Dr. Olveen Carrasquillo, chief of internal medicine at the University of Miami Health System, told Fox News that people can often overdose on certain fat-soluble vitamins if they use supplements. While it's hard to overdose on such vitamins by just eating a natural, well-balanced diet, vitamin supplements can lead to extremely high, toxic levels of these fat-soluble vitamins, Carrasquillo said.
"The problem is that those vitamins are not easily cleared out by the kidney, so they can accumulate faster," he explained.
6 WAYS TO LOSE MORE WEIGHT AS YOU AGE
Overdosing becomes even riskier when you try to supplement with specific vitamins, rather than an overall multivitamin recommended by your physician or dietitian, Krista Mathews, a dietitian at The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center, told Fox News.
Fox News spoke with Carrasquillo and Mathews about those fat-soluble vitamins you should be most careful about overdosing on:
1. Vitamin A Vitamin A — found in foods like sweet potatoes and eggs — is connected to the central nervous system, so an overdose of this vitamin could lead to problems like confusion and lethargy, Carrasquillo said. It could also have adverse effects on your heart and bone health, Mathews added.
6 TIPS FOR MAKING CARBS A HEALTHY PART OF YOUR DIET
2. Vitamin D Many adults don't consume enough foods rich in vitamin D, like cheese, milk and other dairy, Mathews said, and so should take a multivitamin if their physician recommends it.
However, as Vitamin D is involved in controlling the body's metabolism of calcium, an excess of Vitamin D can also lead to high calcium levels in the body, Carrasquillo said. That, in turn, can lead to problems such as dehydration, excess urination, kidney stones, confusion, and more, he said.
3. Vitamin E Vitamin E, which is in foods like almonds and spinach, can, if taken in excess, interfere with the absorption of certain vitamins and lead to increased bleeding, Carrasquillo said. He noted that while many people believe Vitamin E can help boost things like sexual health, there's really no need for supplementing your diet with this vitamin.

We all know of herbs and other natural remedies that can help improve our memory and boost our libido, but could there be a similar solution for burning fat?
7 WEIGHT LOSS ROADBLOCKS IN YOUR OFFICE
On Twitter, we got that exact question from a viewer, and the answer is that yes, other than exercise, you can help burn fat by adding certain foods to your diet.
Here are a handful:
Bone broth Kellyann Petrucci, M.S., N.D., a weight loss expert, told Fox News that bone broth is one world's oldest healing foods and can be especially effective when it comes to weight loss. Its power, she said, lies in the fact that it contains lysine, an anti-inflammatory agent known to aid fat burning.
Petrucci offered this tip: "Two days a week, do something called 'mini fasting' — that's where you sip on nothing but bone broth two days a week, have a light meal about 7 o'clock, and that will even heighten your fat-burning power."
6 MORNING HABITS THAT CAN BOOST YOUR WEIGHT LOSS SUCCESS
Turmeric Studies show this super-spice can not only boost your body temperature, which can speed metabolism, but it can also improve your memory.
Cinnamon Next time you pour your morning cup of coffee or whip up a breakfast smoothie, consider adding a dash of cinnamon. That's because the spice can help regulate your blood sugar — helping you avoid that dreaded 3 p.m. crash and control your appetite, to boot. Plus, like turmeric, cinnamon can warm your body to boost your metabolism.

Though we often talk about the health benefits of sex, you know there's a long way to go toward a sex-positive society when some people still believe that masturbation is bad for you, that there's no such thing as truly safe sex, that your vibrator will permanently desensitize your vagina, and that watching porn will always lead to addiction. The truth is, there are a ton of ways that sex and masturbation can boost your physical and mental well-being.
While nobody should ever feel pressured into sex, it's important to remember that you shouldn't feel guilty about doing it either: It's totally acceptable to explore your sexuality just because it feels good and you want to! But in case you need another reason to get it on (with another person or just by yourself), here are some ways that sexuality, arousal, and orgasm can actually improve your health:
1. Women who have sex more often have sharper memories. A recent study in the Archives of Sexual Behavior found that the more often women had sex, the better they performed on a word memorization task. The researchers think sex could stimulate cell growth in the hippocampus, the area of the brain that stores memories.
2. Sex is good for your blood pressure. Sexually active women between ages 57 and 85 are less likely to suffer from hypertension, according to a study in the Journal of Health and Social Behavior. Plus, according to a Trojan and the Sex Information and Education Council of Canada survey, sex only gets more exciting as you get older.

Andy Cohen arrives for the Elton John AIDS Foundation?s 15th Annual "An Enduring Vision Benefit" in New York City, U.S., November 2, 2016.
It looks like Andy Cohen owes Kelly Ripa, big time.
The "Watch What Happens Live!" host sat down with Ripa as a guest host on Friday's "Live!," where he revealed that he was recently diagnosed with melanoma, and said that the skin cancer was discovered after Ripa gave him some good advice.
"You and I were at a party for Anderson's [Cooper] mom in April, and you said, 'You have a black dot on your lip, I don't think that's something good,'" Cohen recounted.
WATCH: 7 of the Biggest Celebrity Bombshells From Andy Cohen's New Book
The talk show host admitted that he was hesitant to go to a doctor at first, thinking the dot was nothing, but said that Ripa and her husband, Mark Consuelos, continued to pressure him into getting it checked out -- which may have saved his life.
"It was melanoma and they removed it, and I just want to thank you because you were so dogmatic," Cohen shared, adding he has healed well in the wake of doctors removing "a chunk" of his lip.
"I never thought that kind of thing would ever happen to me," Cohen said, adding that the experience has changed his "relationship with the sun."
WATCH: Kelly Ripa Likes 'Dynamic' of 'Live!' Guest Co-Hosts
From the sound of it, Ripa's actually got quite the track record when it comes to identifying possible cancerous spots. According to the "Live!" host, she's already spotted skin cancer on three of her friends.
"I'm glad to see that all that money I spend visiting dermatologists is good for something," Ripa joked. However, she admitted that she doesn't know if she'd be able to notice skin cancer on herself because of how people adjust to incremental changes on their own bodies.
"So make sure you guys be careful in the sun out there," she concluded.
WATCH: Andy Cohen Calls Kelly Ripa the #MorningQueen in Sweet Instagram Post

Television personality Kelly Ripa and her husband Mark Consuelos arrive at the 2014 Vanity Fair Oscars Party in West Hollywood, California March 2, 2014.
Kelly Ripa spoke candidly about her sex life with husband Mark Consuelos.
The "Live!" host said on her show that her husband is "mean" after they do the deed.
"He's immediately mean to me afterwards and I don't like that," Ripa said as she sat next to Consuelos who was her guest co-host for Wednesday's show. "I think it's bizarre. He becomes short with me, like irritated."
Consuelos didn't seem bothered by Ripa's confession which she later said was a joke.
"I'm like, 'Oh, now you're irritated?'" Ripa continued. "You were so loving three minutes ago!"
The pair have been married for 20 years and are parents to Michael, 19, Lola, 15, and Joaquin, 13.
A photo posted by Mark Consuelos. (@instasuelos) on Jan 16, 2017 at 6:01am PST

Though you might blame intense period cravings on your hormones, those little guys also have the power to make you put down the Rocky Road, build more muscle during every workout, and rev your metabolism. So yeah, you might owe them an apology.
Here's how to naturally boost your hormone levels and make weight loss so much easier:
1. Curb Cravings All Day Long Commonly dubbed the "satiety" or "feel-full hormone," leptin decreases your appetite. After it's released from your body's fat cells, the hormone acts on your brain's hypothalamus, where it combats its nemesis ghrelin, the "hunger hormone," said Alissa Rumsey, R.D., spokesperson for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics.
SubHeading RELATED: How to Sleep Your Way to Weight Loss
In overweight and obese women, chronically high levels of the satiety hormone can lead to leptin resistance (the more fat you have, the more leptin your body will produce). But most women actually have low levels of the hormone, making you super hungry.
Your move: sleep. Sleep deprivation significantly slashes leptin levels, according to a 2012 review published in the Journal of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. That explains why people with sleep disorders, such as insomnia and sleep apnea, commonly battle with their weight, said Dr. Brian Quebbemann, a bariatric surgeon with the Chapman Medical Center in California and president of The N.E.W. Program. For optimum levels, research from Brigham Young University suggests that women get between 6.5 hours and 8.5 hours of sleep per night, and crash at the same time every day. So start working on that sleep schedule!
2. Build Fat-Burning Muscle Women generally think of testosterone as a manly hormone, and ladies do have far less T than our hairy counterparts. But teeny levels of that hormone mean tiny weight-loss results.
Testosterone is actually one of your body's primary muscle-building hormones. And the more muscle your have, the more calories you burn while doing literally nothing, Quebbemann said. What's more, low levels of testosterone promote insulin resistance, encouraging your body to store calories as fat, said Pat Gilles, C.S.C.S., a Wisconsin-based trainer.
Your move: Pick up something heavy. Lifting heavy weights is the best way to promote the release of muscle-building, fat-burning testosterone, Gilles said. (By heavy, we mean enough resistance that you can only do three-to-four sets of six-to-10 reps with proper form). What's more, performing compound lifts like squats, deadlifts, and assisted pullups uses more muscle fibers and spurs optimum testosterone levels, he said.
SubHeading RELATED: 5 Crucial Things to Do if You're Exercising for Weight Loss
SubHeading
3. Give Your Meals True Staying Power Every time you eat, your intestines release cholecystokinin, glucagon-like peptide 1, and peptide YY (otherwise known as CCK, GLP-1, and PYY, stick with us). These hormones slow down the movement of food through your GI tract. The result of slow-moving food is that you literally stay full long after your meal, which prevents overeating, says Rumsey.
Your move: Eat protein, fat, and complex carbs at each meal. To increase your meal's staying power, first focus on consuming at least 20 to 25 grams of protein at every meal. After all, research from the University of Cambridge shows that high-protein meals, breakfasts specifically, lead to the greatest increases in some of these satiating hormones. Then, make sure to add in vegetable fats and fiber from complex carbs, both of which will improve levels of the gastric-delaying hormones, she says. Think: a veggie and avocado omelet with a piece of whole-wheat toast.
4. Set Your Metabolism Straight Your thyroid, a bat-shaped gland in your neck, produces various thyroid hormones including T3 and T4, which control how many calories you burn just sitting on your butt.
Generally, autoimmune diseases are the cause of big problems in your thyroid hormone levels. So if you suddenly gain weight, notice your hair thinning, or experience extreme fatigue, reach out to your doc, ASAP, said Dr. Steven Lamm, a clinical professor of medicine at the New York University School of Medicine and author of "Fighting Fat." However, even healthy women can experience thyroid hormone dips that cause your metabolism to stall.
Your move: Eat more seafood. Since iodine deficiency can cause your thyroid to malfunction, try to eat more iodine-rich seafood, such as cod, tuna, and shrimp. Seaweed is also one of the best sources of iodine around, according to the National Institutes of Health. Just check your package's label, as iodine content can vary widely between brands.
It's time to get those hormones turnt, baby!

(REUTERS/Albert Gea)
For people recently diagnosed with type 2 diabetes, eating lots of olive oil, fish and whole grains slows progression of the disease more than restricting fat, according to a new analysis.
In a trial that followed participants for more than eight years, those following a so-called Mediterranean diet went significantly longer before needing diabetes medication and more of them had their diabetes go into remission, compared to those on a low-fat diet.
"There's been lots of epidemiology suggesting that a Mediterranean diet was beneficial with metabolic syndrome and diabetes," Dr. Leanne Olansky told Reuters Health.
"But this was a randomized controlled trial, so we know it really was the diet causing the results," she said. "This is the kind of evidence that we use to determine if drugs are effective."
"Everybody thinks of fat as being bad, but this shows that it depends on what kind of fat," said Olansky, an endocrinologist at the Cleveland Clinic who was not involved in the new study.
People diagnosed with diabetes should aim to have a healthy diet, and a Mediterranean diet is a good, healthy option, lead study author Katherine Esposito told Reuters Health in an email.
Cutting calories is important, and cutting fat is an easy way to cut calories, but according to this study, maintaining the right levels of healthy fats is important, she said.
"One of the main aspects of the Mediterranean diet is the percentage of daily fat, which is higher than 30 percent of daily calories, however, the main fat is monounsaturated, usually from olive oil in the Mediterranean basin," said Esposito, of the Diabetes Unit at University Hospital at the Second University of Naples in Italy.
She and her colleagues continued to follow participants in a previous study who had been divided into two groups - one assigned to follow a Mediterranean diet and the other a low-fat diet - when they were first diagnosed with type 2 diabetes.
Both diets were designed to help prevent the disease from getting worse and to keep blood sugar under control without medication for as long as possible.
On both diets, women aimed to consume 1,500 calories per day and men aimed for 1,800 per day. Mediterranean dieters ate lots of vegetables and whole grains and replaced most red meat with poultry and fish. Monthly sessions with nutritionists helped them keep less than half of their calories coming from carbohydrates and at least 30 percent of calories from fat, mainly olive oil.
The low-fat diet restricted fatty or sugary snacks, limiting fats to less than 30 percent of daily calorie intake.
At the end of a four-year study period, some of the participants in each group still hadn't gone on medication.
At the six-year mark, all the people in the low-fat diet group had gone on diabetes medication, but it wasn't until the eight-year mark that all people in the Mediterranean diet group needed medication.
Diabetes "remission," in which blood sugar levels appear healthy with no signs of diabetes, was rare overall but slightly more common in the Mediterranean group, according to the results published in Diabetes Care.
Avoiding saturated fat, which often comes from red meat, could be important for diabetics, Olansky said.
"Although we don't know exactly what it is about Mediterranean diets that helps control blood sugar, it likely has to do with high levels of fiber, less red meat, and more olive oil and fish, a good source of protein with unsaturated fat," she said.
"The Mediterranean diet represents an easy way to combine healthy foods with taste and flavor," Esposito said. "Most of our patients continue to follow Mediterranean diet, even after the study ended."
People on the Mediterranean diet tended to lose more weight than those on the low-fat diet, which may be because the Mediterranean diet is easier to stick to, Olansky said.
"Patients often ask us what they can do besides medication," Olansky said.
"Often they want to try a lifestyle intervention before medicine, and this is a great example of something you could offer a patient."

SAN DIEGO — When people take part in a weight loss program, some shed many pounds, while others don't see the scale change at all. Now, early research suggests people's genes may predict whether they will lose weight during a weight loss program.
In the study, the researchers analyzed information from 46 people who took part in an eight-week  program that involved changes in diet, exercise and behavior, at a Veterans Affairs facility. The participants also submitted a DNA sample for a test (called Pathway Fit, from the DNA testing company Pathway Genomics) that analyzed 75 genetic markers already known to be linked with certain health conditions or with the body's responses to diet and exercise.
Then, the researchers looked to see whether certain genetic markers could predict which participants had lost 5 percent or more of their body weight by the end of the program and which participants had either lost less than 1 percent of their body weight or gained weight. [The Best Way to Lose Weight Safely]
They found five genetic markers linked with weight loss, and then used these markers to create a mathematical model aimed at predicting weight loss among participants in their weight loss program. When they used the model to try to predict who would successfully lose weight, it was accurate 75 percent of the time.
"Patient weight loss following behavioral modification therapy really varies," said study first author Cecilia Dalle Ore, a medical student at the University of California, San Diego. The findings suggest that people's genes could potentially be used to predict their response to behavioral modification programs, said Dalle Ore, who presented the findings here last Sunday (May 22) at Digestive Disease Week, a scientific meeting focused on digestive diseases.
However, because the new study was small, the model still needs to be validated in future studies with more people, she said.
In the future, a genetic test might help doctors know which patients would be unlikely to do well in a weight loss program, said Dr. Amir Zarrinpar, a gastroenterologist at the University of California, San Diego, and senior a author of the study. [How to Get Started on a Weight Loss Program]
In these cases, doctors could try alternative approaches — instead of embarking on a standard weight loss program, they might try a more intense program first, which could involve meal replacements or weight loss drugs, Zarrinpar said.
"By validating these types of genetic tests and showing that they apply to a general population, we can try to improve patient weight loss treatments. For example, instead of waiting three months to see whether a patient is going to respond or not, you could use this kind of information to say, 'OK, we know this patient's likelihood of succeeding is going to be low. Let's do something else instead,'" Zarrinpar said. "That's what we're going towards."
The study was funded by Pathway Genomics, which markets a genetic test that claims to help people with their diet and fitness based on their genes.
Original article on Live Science.
SubHeading Editor's Recommendations
The Best Way to Keep Weight Off
Diet and Weight Loss: The Best Ways to Eat
7 Biggest Diet Myths
Copyright 2016 LiveScience, a Purch company. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

A 23-year-old dentist and medical student died after experiencing an allergic reaction on the operating table, where she was supposed to undergo cosmetic surgery.
Maria Delyukina went to private clinic in Volgograd, southern Russia, to have her lips enlarged and chin re-profiled, Central European News (CEN) reported.

(YouTube/Raiza Contawi)
An Australian doctor is warning against using an increasingly popular device that promises a nose job in 30 seconds.
In August 2016, Filipino vlogger Raiza Contawi advertised the Nose Lifter on YouTube, where she showed how sticking a hook inside your nose then using a separate tool to adjust the  shape of the organ can help users achieve their desired look, news.com.au reported.
According to the product description, "[the Nose Lifter] can fix a variety of nasal shape problems including but not limited to: flat noses, wide and bulbous noses, hook noses, droopy noses, crooked noses, flaring nostrils, upturned noses, dorsal humps, side humps and many others."
However, professor Richard Harvey, head of rhinology at UNSW Australia in Sydney, suggested the device is too good to be true. Not only does it pose dangers to the cartilage framework of the nose, but it also has the potential to hinder the lining of the organ and cause an ulcer. Harvey told news.com.au that the Nose Lifter can also "dislodge" and be sucked into the back of the nose, causing permanent damage.

Perez before surgery. (GoFundMe)
Five minutes after undergoing cosmetic surgery for breast augmentation, Linda Perez fell into a coma for two weeks. Perez, then 18, suffered severe brain damage and was unable to move or speak. Nearly three years later, she can only speak a few words and is only able to stand for a few seconds.
Now, her mother, Mariela Diaz, is speaking out to warn others of the dangers of plastic surgery clinics such as the Coral Gables Cosmetic Center in Miami, where her daughter underwent surgery.
"I tell the daughters and mothers to think it over before going to those clinics, because they never know how they are going to come out," Mariela told the Miami Herald. "They should accept what they have naturally."
The surgery was the second for Perez, who previously had a buttocks augmentation, the Miami Herald reported
The physician who administered the anesthesia, Dr. Mario Alberto Diaz, tried to resuscitate the girl after her heart rate and blood pressure dropped and she fell unconscious. He received an administrative complaint from the Florida Department of Health, which stated Diaz should have responded "in a more aggressive and timely fashion" and that he failed to provide an adequate airway for assisted breathing during the over 30 minutes of resuscitation attempts.

Ryan Mercurio, 27, had no qualms about blasting friends and co-workers with photos of her newly pumped-up pout when she got her first lip injections a year ago.
"I feel like every girl in this generation sends selfies when she gets her hair done or is trying on a new outfit, or just looks good and wants encouragement," says the Bronx-based hairstylist. "Of course, I want people to give me feedback [on my lips]."
Mercurio says her peers are continually sharing their cosmetic enhancements.
"A lot of my friends use Snapchat, but I mainly send photos through text," she says. "We do it all the time."

Scott, before (image courtesy subject)
Scott, after (image courtesy subject)
(image courtesy Music City Plastic Surgery)
Even though Scott Kaiser had a healthy diet and stayed active with regular cardio and weight lifting, he realized he was developing a double chin, something that also seemed to plague other men in his family.
Sure, he would indulge in a glass of wine or a slice of pizza on the weekends, but "it wasn't worth giving up some of the fun stuff to lose the weight," Kaiser, 50, said.
Five years ago, he met with plastic surgeon Dr. Michael Burgdorf to talk about liposuction. When Burgdorf told him about Kybella, a non-invasive fat dissolving treatment that wouldn't require him to go into hiding for a few days, Kaiser was in.
"It sounded like a much better route without having downtime," he said.
Men feel emasculated
Since Kybella first emerged on the market in 2015, experts say they have seen an increase in men between the ages of 30 and 70 opting for the treatment.

(Twitter/Dan Krauth)
A Florida woman went into cardiac arrest while undergoing a tummy tuck procedure at Miami clinic and later died after doctors were unable to revive her.
Maria Christian, 32, had the surgery done at Vanity Cosmetic Surgery in Westchester, NBC Miami reported. The Miami-Dade Police Department investigated the clinic's facilities and surgical rooms and did not find any violations.
Doctors at the business said Christian was in good health before the operation and that she had previously undergone two cosmetic procedures at the clinic. In January, doctors performed a Brazilian butt-lift.
Dr. Camille Chavez performed the surgery.
"They were trying to tell her, 'Just do it with her, she's really good, she's really good, and you're going to be fine,'" Christian's sister, Carolina Flor, told NBC Miami.

Autopsy results released Thursday revealed that a 14-month-old Texas girl's death in March after a routine dental procedure was due to complications during anesthesia. The Travis County  Medical Examiner's Office told People.com that Daisy Lynn Torres' exact cause of death has been classified as undetermined, as it was non-natural, but not classified as an accident, a homicide or a suicide.
Betty Squier, of Austin, took her daughter Daisy to Austin Children's Dentistry for a dental crown procedure, but halfway through, a complication occurred and the office called an ambulance to take Daisy Lynn to the hospital. About two hours later, Daisy was pronounced dead.
"We have been waiting for the medical examiner's report in hopes that it would bring some closure for the family," Austin Children's Dentistry said in a statement, according to People. "We understand it has been classified as 'undetermined' due to anesthesia complications administered by a Board Certified Medical Anesthesiologist and not because of a dental procedure. We know there are always risks associated with anesthesia, however, the loss of a child is particularly tragic."
Dr. Robert Delarosa, president of the American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry, told the news website that he advises dentists to avoid anesthesia whenever possible, but some instances call for the treatment.
"The main reason it's used is because small children are prone to squirming in their chairs," Delarosa told People. "If a dentist is holding a sharp object, a moving child can bump their hand, causing further damage."

Nafsika Lourentzatos, who lost both breasts after a botched breast enhancement procedure, shares her story in an American Society of Plastic Surgeons' "Do Your Homework" patient safety campaign.
She thought the silicone injections were safe, but for Nafsika Lourentzatos, the enhancement procedure led to the loss of both of her breasts.
The former New York City-based event planner had been thinking about breast implants since she was very young, but her mother wouldn't allow her to do anything until she turned 18. While push-up bras held off her interest for a while, at 17, a friend told her about a married couple who were both doctors and would stop into town to perform silicone injections.
"[I thought] it was just a little injection, no big deal, not surgery," Lourentzatos, now 33, told FoxNews.com. Plus, the procedure cost $1,500, compared to the approximately $5,000 a breast augmentation would cost.
While Lourentzatos had done research on breast augmentation, she didn't do any for silicone injections. She went to a hotel in Manhattan, had the injections, and found that the results were disappointing.
"Not even a cup bigger," she said. "It was almost like I got nothing done."
Her boyfriend at the time started noticing lumps in her breasts, but Lourentzatos didn't become concerned until she was 22 and the lumps started moving up to her chest plate. She finally told her mother what she had done and they found out that the doctors who performed the procedure had been arrested in Colombia. The doctors were not certified to practice in the U.S.
Lourentzatos had a mammogram and sonogram and her doctor recommended she remove her breasts in order to rid her body of the silicone.
"I was terrified, shocked… How did I go from one injection to having my breasts removed?" Lourentzatos said.
Not wanting to acknowledge the news, she left the office and didn't return. It wasn't until Lourentzatos was nearing 30 that unrelated medical issues made her realize that she needed to take her health more seriously. She went to six different doctors who all recommended removing her breasts immediately, as the silicone could eventually get into her blood stream and kill her.
"Silicone gel was all over the breast and all over the chest wall," Dr. Ron Israeli, the American Society of Plastic Surgeons (ASPS) member surgeon who performed Lourentzatos's reconstructive surgeries said in a video released by ASPS. "It looked like multiple pellets throughout the breast itself."
Lourentzatos's breasts had to be removed and Israeli spent hours performing several reconstruction surgeries. Her first surgery was in Jan. 2013 and the most recent one was done in Dec. 2013, but Lourentzatos may need one or two more due to the visible dents in her chest left after the silicone bits— and much of her skin— was removed.
According to ASPS, cases like Lourentzatos's— with patients coming in to correct botched surgeries— are becoming more and more common. The organization has launched a new public safety campaign to warn the public that not all doctors are qualified to perform plastic surgery.
"Sometimes patients will spend more time picking a color for a new car or deciding on a new car than actually investigating a surgeon that is actually taking your life into his or her hands, and that to me is frightening because it's your life. You can replace your car, but you can't replace your life," ASPS President Dr. Scot Glasberg told FoxNews.com. He added that the pressures of the insurance market and lower reimbursement to physicians has led to many unqualified people to perform plastic surgery and receive the out-of-pocket costs for it.
Glasberg and the ASPS recommend all patients considering plastic surgery asking the doctor two things: First, are you board certified and if so, by the The American Board of Plastic Surgery, which is the only certifying body in the U.S.? Second, is the facility you operate in an accredited facility? The ASPS requires all board-certified surgeons to operate in accredited facilities.
Many patients neglect the due diligence when researching their doctor because people are inherently trusting, especially with physicians, Glasberg said.
"…but a lot of people operate under the guise that they don't get asked these questions," he said. "These two easy questions get a long way to getting the information you need to make sure you're safe."
The ASPS website also has a Find a Surgeon tool to find a board-certified doctor.
"Your body is the most important thing that you have, doing research and finding out as much info as you can… is extremely important," Lourentzatos said. "The trauma, depression and sadness going through with this whole experience, I wouldn't even want my own worst enemy to going through it."

(Courtesy Katie Crenshaw)
When Katie Crenshaw penned a blog for her website, Twelve & Six, detailing the pity she received over daughter Charlie's unique birthmark, she had no idea that the post would turn her 7-month-old tot into an internet sensation.
38 weeks in | 38 weeks out
A photo posted by k a t i e • c r e n s h a w (@katiemcrenshaw) on Apr 25, 2016 at 9:56am PDT
"I sent it to a website that caters towards parents that have children with differences or disabilities, from there it went viral," she told Barcroft Media. "I had no idea that it was going to get the attention or response that it got. After it went viral, there was way more people that could relate to it than I would've imagined."
Baby Charlie's mark, capillary hemangioma or "a strawberry," is the result of a tumor with an abnormal overgrowth of tiny blood vessels. And while it covers most of the tyke's right cheek, Crenshaw notes that the blue-eyed toddler herself hardly notices it.
Sunday hangs. ??
A photo posted by k a t i e • c r e n s h a w (@katiemcrenshaw) on Apr 17, 2016 at 1:02pm PDT
"Charlie is a healthy baby girl and we are blessed. Her hemangioma is just as insignificant to who she is as a freckle on her arm," Crenshaw said.
"She's just a normal little girl who does everything every other baby does. Except that she's cuter in our eyes," added Charlie's father, Tyler Crenshaw.

Maybe you haven't thought about going under the knife yourself, but the world of plastic surgery is hard to escape these days— not that it's necessary to name names or anything.
This month the American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery released its annual report on industry trends of 2015, and the results were kind of staggering.
First of all, Americans spent more than $13.5 billion getting work done last year, which is roughly $1.5 billion more than they spent in 2014. Secondly, while only 9.5 percent of the cosmetic procedures performed in the U.S. last year were on male clients, the number of men partaking in cosmetic procedures has grown by 325 percent since 1997.
So what exactly are men having done?
More: The Hottest Women of the 21st Century
Grandpa Bod, Be Gone
In 2015, liposuction, nose surgery, eyelid surgery, male breast reduction, and facelift were the top five surgical procedures for men. Male breast reduction for the treatment of Gynecomastia rose by 26 percent last year alone, and by a total of 173 percent since the '90s.
More: How to Get a Superhero Body in 90 Days or Less
The Benjamin Button Club
Injectables like Botox and Juvéderm were the most popular nonsurgical procedures among both men and women. These treatments minimize signs of aging on a temporary basis—they are essentially the thing that makes celebrities look like they're aging in reverse (or, in some unfortunate cases, turning into a melted wax figures).
More: 10 Important Habits of Skinny People
No Regrets?
Tattoo removal, which seems so sweet and innocent compared with all this other stuff, ranked number 11 on the list of the most popular nonsurgical procedures for men. The treatment has seen enormous growth in the last year (about 39 percent), which kind of makes sense given how easy it is to get a terrible tattoo.
We just want to say, for the record, your original face looks great. Maybe just eat an avocado or two and be done with it.
More: Amber Rose's GQ Photo Shoot
We just want to say, for the record, your original face looks great. Maybe just eat an avocado or two and be done with it.

An Oregon woman who shed 140 lbs after fearing she would "die obese" marked her stomach with hate comments she had received throughout her life before undergoing a tummy tuck. She underwent the procedure to get rid of the excess skin on her body and complete her weight loss transformation.
"My mum came up with the idea," said 28-year-old Stephanie Seabrook, according to Detroit Newstime. "We wrote all the things I had said to myself, what others had said, all the negative words, then the next day I went to surgery."
She shared the photos, which were originally taken in 2012, with her Instagram followers, saying the idea was that once surgeons removed the excess skin, the negative words would be removed as well.
"The idea was all the negativity would go with my baggy skin— it felt so good to wake up," Seabrook said, according to Detroit Newstime.
Before the surgery, Seabrook struggled with self-confidence and would often shut people out until one day she had had enough.
"I kept walking until I couldn't anymore— I ended up walking 4 miles," she said, according to the report.

Every since you were a kid, you've always been told that sugary sweets will rot your teeth. So it doesn't really come as a surprise that a new study from the U.K. finds that greatly reducing the amount of added sugar you eat can significantly lower your risk of dental decay.
Researchers found that over time, people's risk of cavities increased incrementally as the consumption of free, or added, sugars grew from about 0 percent to 10 percent of total daily calories. So for healthier teeth, the study authors recommend cutting the amount of added sugars to no more than 5 percent, with a target goal of 3 percent.
That 5 percent figure is one fifth of the daily limit suggested by the Institute of Medicine. And it represents half of what the World Health Organization (WHO) currently recommends--though it has recently proposed guidelines that would cut its max to 5 percent, too. This includes any sucrose, glucose, and fructose added to food, as well as the sugars present in honey, syrups, and fruit juices. (There's a lot to smile about--except for the smiles themselves. Find out how your hometown ranks among America's Best and Worst Cities for Teeth.)
Let's take a closer look at what 5 percent really means: A guy eating 2,000 calories a day would be limited to just 100 calories, or 25 grams, of added sugar. So drink one glass of orange juice with breakfast, and you've pretty much hit that cap for the day. That means no honey-sweetened oatmeal or fruit-flavored Greek yogurt later on.
Why You Don't Need To Sugar-Strike But as it turns out, it's not exactly how much sugar you're eating that bumps up your tooth decay risk--it's how often you're eating it, says Carole Palmer, Ed.D., head of the division of nutrition and oral health promotion at the Tufts University School of Dental Medicine.
That's because of how the decaying process works: Bacteria attach to your teeth and coat them in a thin film known as plaque. When you eat sugars, they reach the bacteria, which begin to chow down. They then turn the sugars into acid, which deconstructs the enamel of tooth and causes decay. (Coffee can stain your pearly whites but it may help your mouth stay healthy. Learn How Coffee Can Save Your Teeth in your next cup o' joe.)
The acid reaction starts each time sugar comes in contact with plaque. If you glug down a sweet drink quickly, the excess sugar beyond what the bacteria can use is simply swallowed. So when looking at tooth decay, it doesn't really matter if you're drinking a cup of sweetened coffee with one teaspoon of sugar or 10--the decaying potential would be the same. (For solids like cookies or cake, however, the leftover particles stay in your mouth for the bacteria to continue to munch on, says Palmer.)
What matters most, though, is if that same cup of Joe lingers from 9 a.m. to lunchtime.
"As long as you're sipping it or snacking on it, the bacteria that can cause decay are changing that sugar into acid, and that acid is eroding the tooth," Palmer says. (Here are the 5 Surprising Ways You're Destroying Your Teeth--and the best ways to protect them.)
The best thing to do? Eat your sugary foods during your three main meals--the decaying reaction would be sparked then anyway, because there are natural sugars in healthy foods like fruits, vegetables, and grains. Then brush after, advises Palmer.
Try not to graze on sweetened food or drinks throughout the day, but if you do, give your mouth a quick rinse after. That'll flush out the extra sugar that's hanging out there hoping to feed the bacteria later.
How Much Sugar Should You Eat? Look at it from a health and body composition standpoint, since the total amount of sugar you eat isn't what will rot your chompers. The 5 percent recommendation from the study isn't realistic or sustainable for most guys to incorporate in their everyday life-- and it's unnecessarily low from a general health standpoint, says Men's Health nutrition advisor Alan Aragon, M.S.
A more realistic goal: Shoot for a maximum of 10 percent of your daily calories to come from added sugars, Aragon advises.  (For more great ways to lower you sugar consumption, follow these 6 strategies to curb your habit.)

A man in Pennsylvania developed a rare and potentially life-threatening infection after a routine dental exam and teeth cleaning, according to a new report of his case.
The 57-year-old man recovered from the infection after treatment, said the doctors who treated the man and wrote the report.
The type of infection that the man had is very rare, and the chances of getting this type of infection during a dental procedure are very low, said Dr. Faton Bytyci, a resident physician at Sacred Heart Hospital in Allentown, Pennsylvania, who treated the man and co-authored the report.
But to minimize the risk of such infections during dental procedures, people with heart defects or a history of heart infection may be prescribed antibiotics before undergoing dental procedures, Bytyci said.
The man was admitted to the hospital in November 2014 with a fever and pain in the upper right side of his body. An MRI of his abdomen revealed that a pocket of pus had formed in the man's liver, and further tests showed that this pocket was caused by an infection with Fusobacterium necrophorum, a type of bacteria that is typically found inside a person's mouth, but not in the liver.
When the doctors talked to the man, they found out he'd had a routine dental exam and cleaning about two weeks before, which made the doctors think that it might have been the source of the infection, Bytyci said. [Chew on This: 8 Foods for Healthy Teeth]
Specifically, the doctors speculated that the dental cleaning might have damaged the lining of the mouth, providing an opening for bacteria to enter the bloodstream. Once in the blood, the bacteria could have traveled to the man's liver.
To treat the man, the doctors drained the pus from his liver using a special needle and gave him antibiotics. The man was discharged from the hospital after a week, and was prescribed more antibiotics to take over the following month.
When the doctors performed a CT scan of the man's liver six weeks after he left the hospital, they found that his condition had resolved completely.
The type of bacterial infection of the liver seen in this case is potentially life-threatening, killing 2 to 12 percent of people who become infected, according to the report, published today (March 7) in the journal BMJ Case Reports.
There are other types of bacteria that may cause serious infections after dental procedures, Bytyci said. The most common one is Streptococcus, which also lives in people's mouths, he said. If this bacterium gets into a person's blood, it can, for example, cause endocarditis, which is an infection of the heart that can potentially damage a person's heart valves.
But serious bacterial infections following dental procedures are rare, and the vast majority of people don't need to take antibiotics or take any other precautions prior to dental procedures, he said.
One step dentists can take to reduce the risk of spreading bacterial infections to a patient's organs is to thoroughly examine their patients' mouths for any ongoing bacterial infections before conducting dental procedures, Bytyci said.
5 Ways Gut Bacteria Affect Your Health
5 Experts Answer: Is Flossing Really Necessary?
16 Oddest Medical Cases
Copyright 2016 LiveScience, a Purch company. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Daisy Lynn Torres died during a visit to the dentist.
A Texas dentist office is under investigation after a 14-month-old girl died while undergoing an undisclosed procedure that required anesthesia, The American-Statesman reported.
Daisy Lynn Torres was receiving care at Austin Children's Dentistry Tuesday when a call was placed requesting emergency response, the news site reported. She was pronounced dead two hours later.
"Daisy was a happy baby full of life," Jessica Castaneda, Daisy's aunt, told The American-Statesman. "She had just celebrated Easter with her family. She went to the dentist. Then her mother called me and asked me to pray because something went wrong and they were taking her to the hospital. Next thing we know, we're planning funeral arrangements."

AliceAnn Meyer posted this picture of her disabled son on her blog in 2015. A year later, she is hitting back at Internet trolls who made it into a meme.
(JamesonsJourney.com)
AliceAnn Meyer, with her son, Jameson, right, who suffers from Pfieffer syndrome. Meyer blasted Internet trolls who turned her son's picture into an Internet meme.
(JamesonsJourney.com)
The mother of a 4-year-old boy born with a syndrome that altered the shape of his head and caused other health complications is hitting back at Internet trolls who turned a personal photo of him into a social media meme.
AliceAnn Meyer, of Texas, posted a photo of her son Jameson as part of her online blog titled Jameson's Journey, which documents his life with Pfeiffer syndrome. The disorder causes premature fusion of certain skull bones that prevents the skull from growing normally, and affects the shape of the head and face. It can also affect bones in the hands and feet, and more than half of all children with Pfeiffer syndrome experience hearing loss and dental problems. It affects approximately 1 in 100,000 newborns, according to Boston Children's Hospital.
Meyer, a mother of three, discovered that the picture she had posted of her son more than a year ago had been altered to compare him to a pug, and that it had been circulated on various social media sites. On Facebook, it had been shared more than 3,000 times.
"There's a person behind a picture, and too often people think it’s OK to cross boundaries on the Internet."
- AliceAnn Meyer
Expand / Contract
"You stole a photo of my four-year-old son," Meyer wrote in a post titled This Is My Son Jameson, And No, You May Not Use His Photo. "Say what you want out loud, to your friends, in the comment box, but do not take my photo to degrade my child," she wrote.
"To everyone that 'LOL'd,' shared, and posted that meme, let me start by introducing you to the child you find so funny. His name is Jameson. He is very real, and he was born with Pfeiffer syndrome," she wrote.
It took Meyer several days and reports of abuse from other users before the post was removed from Facebook.
"To all of you out there that are laughing so hard at my son, know that this in fact could be your child," she wrote. "And if one day this does happen to one of you that are out there laughing and making fun, I hope and pray you change your heart and welcome that child with loving arms."
She urged others who see the photo to report it or take a screenshot and send it to her to report.
"My goal is to turn this whole thing into a positive story, spreading awareness and education about Pfeiffer syndrome, about kids who look different who get targeted too often," Meyer told FoxNews.com in an email. "There's a person behind a picture, and too often people think it's OK to cross boundaries on the Internet."

When Max and his late wife, Liz, decided to participate in a documentary chronicling 13 families' pregnancy journeys, they simply thought they were participating in an effort to shed light on the trials, tribulations and joys that come with conceiving and growing a child.
But when Liz Joice was diagnosed for the second time with undifferentiated sarcoma— a very rare cancer of the tissues that usually occurs in childhood— 13 weeks into her pregnancy, and then died six weeks after giving birth to their daughter, the footage soon took on a whole new meaning.
"I always want you to know how important you are— you're bigger than me. She's bigger than me," Liz tells her unborn daughter, Lily, now 1, in footage included in the documentary "40 Weeks."
Liz's sacrifice made international headlines in spring 2014, when she succumbed to her cancer at age 36, but now, as Max, 35, raises Lily, he plans to use the video to teach his daughter about the mother with whom she shared too little time.
'We saw ourselves as survivors'
Max and Liz met on election night 2008, and bonded over a love of politics and food culture. They each had rocky childhoods and saw one another as survivors.
Over Labor Day weekend in 2010, Liz was diagnosed with undifferentiated sarcoma. Max proposed the same day.
"We wanted to get married quickly given that she was afraid of losing her hair, and also on the practical side, we wanted me to be able to advocate for her more while she was going through treatment," Max said.
Liz underwent chemotherapy, befriending other patients and inspiring them to stay strong, her husband recalled.
"She had the highest tolerance for pain and discomfort," Max said. "One of the things that was so amazing was how positive she was— and there's a lot to be said for how that helped her respond to the treatment."
In spring 2011, Liz was cleared of cancer— but the treatment had induced early menopause. Her OB-GYN said there was "no way" she would ever get pregnant.
About two years later, Liz asked Max to go into the bathroom, saying she remodeled it as a surprise. When he walked in, he spotted two home pregnancy tests sitting by the sink. There were two tiny blue lines on each.
"Our minds were blown," Max said. "We sort of felt like we deserved a miracle after what we'd been through, and we'd got it."
Liz enjoyed every moment of growing a new baby, and Max was equally overjoyed.
"[Pregnancy is] harder on some women than others," Max said, "There was rarely anything negative, and she was so happy throughout the whole time."
'The world's cruelest joke'
While pregnant, Liz had frequent morning sickness, which reminded her of chemo side effects, but she didn't think much of it— until she found a lump in her back in the same place as her previous tumor. It was then that everything shifted into focus.
"It was like the world's cruelest joke," Liz described in "40 Weeks."
"She had a lot of guilt, not just with me but for putting everyone through it," Max said. "And it was misplaced because she had nothing to feel guilty for."
"Anger" was a useless emotion, Liz would always say. Instead, she channeled her positivity and focused on her and Max's unborn child.
"I got a lot more reasons to fight now than I did before, and I did a pretty good damn job the first time, so I don't expect this will be any different," she said in the video. "I'm in mama bear mode— you're messing with my cub, and I'm gonna take you out."
Shortly after Liz learned she was pregnant, they were recruited for "40 Weeks," a documentary featuring diverse women sharing their pregnancy stories.
Director Christopher Henze said he felt a personal connection with all the couples who are featured in the film, but that he felt an "elevated bond" with the Joices.
"They were just so open, and generous, and beautiful, and caring and smart," Henze told FoxNews.com.
According to Lisa Singer, the "40 Weeks" casting director and Liz's former running coach, her friend didn't see cancer as a major complication.
"Even in her worst of times, even when she didn't have her hair— every single thing, it wasn't the end-all for her," Singer said. She would say, 'It's OK, it's a little blip in my life,' and I truly thought she would beat it."
'She put a lot of faith in herself'
Liz planned to undergo surgery to have the tumor removed but also would need treatment to fully eradicate the cancer. But the contrast dyes used for full-body MRIs to determine whether the cancer had spread posed a big risk: possible damage to the fetus.
Various doctors gave Liz and Max three options: to continue the pregnancy without treatment and hope it didn't spread; to terminate the baby and immediately begin chemotherapy; or to undergo chemotherapy during the pregnancy, which also risked harming the fetus.
"Liz put a lot of faith in herself and her ability to fight, and she was really hopeful it would turn out like the first time," Max said.
In November 2013, Liz had the tumor surgically removed from her back, but she and Max chose to skip more invasive treatment to avoid possibly hurting the baby.
But around 33.5 weeks into her pregnancy, an X-ray scan showed that cancer had returned, spreading to her lungs, providing visual evidence for Liz's increasing trouble with breathing. Doctors moved up her C-section six weeks so she could undergo treatment immediately, and on Jan. 23, Liz gave birth to baby Lily.
Further scans after Liz gave birth revealed the cancer had spread to her abdomen and her heart.
The first-time mom got six weeks with her daughter— a time Max described as "hellacious, certainly being at both ends of the spectrum, being so ecstatic and happy and amazed, but terrified and sad and scared."
On March 9, 2014, Liz passed away after losing her battle with undifferentiated sarcoma. The "40 Weeks" crew followed her and Max right up to Liz's labor, when she gave birth to Lily— delivered weighing 4 pounds, 3 ounces— at week 33 in Liz's pregnancy. The camera crew also captured the family at home after Lily spent three days in the NICU.
'It was unspoken'
In "40 Weeks," which was released on DVD in December 2014, the Joices discuss how fortunate they felt that they were able to bring Lily into the world.
"A lot of people never get to experience the kind of love that we had for Lily and for each other … and even though it didn't end how we wanted it to, not everybody gets to experience what I did," Max told FoxNews.com.
Singer always knew her friend would be an inspiration for cancer patients who feared they wouldn't have children, but she never expected Liz's story to turn out this way.  "She was supposed to be the happy, positive role model, and she still will be but not in the way she was supposed to be," Singer said.
Henze and Debroux have made videos to help Lily learn about her mom as she grows up.
"Everything happens for a reason," Singer said, "and maybe the reason that I cast her in the movie is that [Lily is] able to have all this footage of her mom. And Max will always be able to remember them as a couple and the happy times, and Lily will always know how much her mother loved her and that she gave up her life for her."
In the future, the footage will play an important role in Lily's life, Max said.
"It was unspoken that she wanted Lily to know how much her mother loved her," he said, "and was willing to sacrifice for her and how much good came out of that sacrifice."
In honor of Mother's Day, on Saturday, May 9, Big Belli— a virtual community for expecting mothers that was created by Henze and his wife, co-producer Dominique Debroux — is hosting a fundraising walk in New York City in honor of Liz Joice. Donations from the second annual event will benefit The Sarcoma Foundation of America.

Diabetics considering weight-loss surgery to help send their disease into remission should opt for the most popular procedure, a gastric bypass, researchers suggest.
In their study of different types of so-called bariatric surgeries, the biggest impact on diabetes remission was seen with gastric bypass, which can reduce the size of the stomach from about three pints to roughly the size of a shot glass.
The researchers studied 569 obese patients with type 2 diabetes who had different types of weight-loss operations and 1,881 similar diabetics who didn't have surgery. Altogether, the surgical patients had an almost 18-fold greater chance of experiencing remission, meaning their elevated blood sugar returned to a healthy level common in people without diabetes.
Compared to results without surgery, remission was about 43 times more likely in patients who had gastric bypass, and almost 17 times more likely for patients who had procedures known as sleeve gastrectomies, which reduce the stomach to the size of a banana. Remission was about seven times more likely when patients had gastric banding, which can be less invasive and reversible but also result in less weight loss.
While the findings suggest that diabetics might benefit from bariatric surgery in general, and gastric bypass in particular, there isn't enough long-term data yet to say whether these operations might make sense for diabetics who are not obese, said co-author Frank de Vries, a pharmacist at Maastricht University and Utrecht University in the Netherlands.

A woman is suing a nail salon in Santa Clarita, Calif., alleging a pedicure gone wrong caused her to lose a toe. Sonia Algara, who filed a negligence suit in Los Angeles Superior Court on Monday, says she warned workers at Dynasty Nails that she was diabetic and at a high risk of infection before her pedicure on March 15, 2015, reports CBS Los Angeles.
Yet during the treatment, Algara says an employee cut between the fourth and fifth toes on her left foot with a pair of scissors. "They stopped right there," says her attorney, adding Algara visited a hospital that same day.
But "the incision caused severe pain and infection and eventually led to the pinky toe needing to be amputated" within a week, according to the suit.
Algara says her balance has been affected and she can't climb stairs or wear certain shoes. She's seeking unspecified damages for medical expenses, mental anguish, and emotional distress, reports My News LA.
(A woman claimed a pedicure killed her husband.)
More From Newser
Americans Name Drug They Fear Most—and It's Legal
To Rule the Dating Scene, Open Up— Literally
Pesticide Firm Fined $10M for Almost Killing Family

"I have sobriety, good books, Netflix, and a wonderful family," Jessica Grubb wrote from a Michigan hospital on Feb. 23, ahead of hip surgery. On March 1, the 30-year-old recovering heroin addict left the hospital with an IV port in her arm and 50 prescribed pills of oxycodone.
She was found dead of "oxycodone toxicity" the next day, reports the Huffington Post. Though she'd been sober for six months, she "still had that addict's brain," says father David Grubb, a former West Virginia state senator.
Among those to mourn is President Obama, whom David Grubb had told of his daughter's addiction at a Charleston town hall in October, per the Charleston Gazette-Mail.
The story "left a powerful impression on me and has helped accelerate efforts to deal with this national epidemic of addiction," Obama says in a condolence letter.
Heroin Overdose Deaths in the United States | HealthGrove
(This week, the president rolled out new initiatives on that front, notes CNN.) David Grubb says his daughter was "an incredible achiever" and "smart as a whip." But then she was introduced to heroin, and "all her problems went away and she didn't feel any pain." Four stints in rehab over seven years ultimately failed.
In August 2015, her mom found her turning blue from a heroin overdose. That "literally scared her to death," David Grubb says of his daughter. She got a job and apartment in Ann Arbor, Mich., where she attended meetings.
But when she was handed 50 oxycodone pills, "I think it was just too much temptation for her to resist," her dad says. He adds the prescribing doctor later said "he had no idea" that Grubb was a recovering addict, even though her parents had informed doctors.
The Grubbs plan to advocate for "Jessie's Law" to block doctors from accidentally offering opioids to addicts. (The drug that Americans worry about the most is perfectly legal.)
More From Newser
He's Not the Dad, but He Still Owes Child Support
Cruise Company Charges Man Extra Because His Wife Died
She Wanted to Be a Cop, Till a Cop Did the Unimaginable

Kellisa and Chris Kain at the highest point in West Virginia, Spruce Knob (4,863 feet). Chris took the picture on a timer in August 2010. Kellisa has been to the highest point in 21 states, Chris said, and Spruce Knob was the 18th highest for Kellisa.
(Photo courtesy Chris Kain)
Chris Kain on one knee next to Kellisa in a chair at Fort Reno in Washington D.C., in August 2010. In the photo, which was taken with a timer, Chris and Kellisa are directly above a geographical marker that is the highest point in Washington D.C.
(Photo courtesy Chris Kain)
Most people who use a wheelchair prefer smooth pavement, but 16-year-old Kellisa Kain has always wanted the ground beneath her to be rocky, bumpy and "crazy," her father said.
Kellisa, who lives in Jacksonville, Fla., with her mom, Lisa, her sister, Laurel, and her father, Chris, has hydrocephalus and cerebral palsy— conditions that have left her developmentally delayed, prone to seizures, and reliant on assistive devices. Doctors didn't expect Kellisa would survive long after birth, but when she did, Chris promised her that despite any potential health complications in the future, he'd make sure she lived the most normal life possible. He also vowed to show her the world.
Since then, the wheels of Kellisa's jog strollers have touched the soil at Great Smoky National Park, the red clay at national parks in Sedona and the Grand Canyon, and the grass on an island off Lake Superior. She's visited 47 of the 50 states that her father wants her to see by the time she is 18.
"We started out with just the wheelchair, and I'll be honest with you: We were on trails we had no business being on in a wheelchair," Chris, 44, told FoxNews.com. Outdoors, he said, Kellisa "comes alive."
Defying the odds
"We've only ever seen one other kid in a wheelchair doing this stuff," Chris said, "and it breaks my heart that other kids are trapped in their bodies and in their house. I want people to see Kellisa and know that it's worth it."
Kellisa's twin sister passed away 27 days after birth, but doctors predicted Kellisa was the one who wouldn't make it. The girls were born premature at 25 weeks and with twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome, which occurs when twins share blood supply from a single placenta. The recipient twin— in this case, Kellisa— is born larger and takes more blood from her sibling, who is called the donor twin and is the smaller of the two. During the pregnancy, Lisa almost died.
Kellisa spent the first 16 months of her life in the ICU, and her early childhood was riddled with doctor's visits, surgeries— 22 to this day— and prescription medications required for epilepsy. Hydrocephalus and cerebral palsy, which are common comorbidities, are marked by an excess of fluid in the brain and muscle dysfunction, respectively. At birth, extreme pressure on Kellisa's brain led to internal bleeding and post-hemorrhagic hydrocephalus of prematurity.
"Sixteen years ago, the majority of those kids did not survive— and she did survive," Dr. Kim Dal Porto, Kellisa's pediatrician in Jacksonville since she was 2, told FoxNews.com.
In extremely premature babies, that internal bleeding is common but doesn't always result in hydrocephalus, as was the case for Kellisa.  To control hydrocephalus, she uses a nonprogrammable shunt, which is a device implanted in the head and connected to a tube that empties excess cerebrospinal fluid into the abdomen. Shunts are one of the most common treatments for hydrocephalus, and as she has grown, Kellisa has had about a dozen surgeries to either replace or adjust the device.
Having more than a dozen shunt surgeries by early adulthood isn't uncommon among hydrocephalus patients, Mark Luciano, a professor of neurosurgery and the director of the Cerebral Fluid Center at Johns Hopkins University, who has not treated Kellisa, told FoxNews.com. He said while shunts have a 5 percent infection rate and implanting them can be life threatening, taking trips by car and plane usually isn't a problem for hydrocephalus patients so long as the shunt is functioning properly.
Dal Porto said hydrocephalus posed more of a health threat to Kellisa as a child, but today her primary diagnosis is spastic cerebral palsy, which means her muscles are too tense.
"For that, for her whole life, [Kellisa] has had tons of physical therapy and occupational therapy," Dal Porto said. She added that Kellisa sees a GI specialist due to the feeding tube she must use to drink fluids, as well as an orthopedist for her cerebral palsy, among other specialists.
David Hammond, Kellisa's neurologist, told FoxNews.com that Kelissa takes Lamotrigine and Topiramate to help control her seizures. Those medications have helped ward off the prolonged episodes of seizing— called status epilepticus seizures— that she had more often when she was younger. Sometimes, Kellisa still has minor episodes when her arms and legs stiffen.
On trips when Chris and Kellisa are remote from a hospital, Chris keeps the seizure rescue medication Diazepam on hand to administer to Kellisa by rectum, but he's only done this a few times, he said.
"As long as the seizures are controlled, we want our patients to live as normal a life as possible," Hammond said.
Starting with baby steps
Dal Porto and Hammond said Kellisa fits the mold of a typical patient with hydrocephalus and cerebral palsy, but when asked to describe what makes her different from them, they use words like "expressive," "optimistic" and "ambitious."
"She is very tuned into cues and what other people are saying and doing," Hammond said.
To communicate with her family, Kellisa uses a combination of sign language and uttering simple words like "yes" to indicate how she feels and what she wants.
"I feel like she is living life," Dal Porto said. "You feel like she actually is enjoying things. She's got music she likes, singers she likes, and friends."
Chris knew his daughter was destined for more than being cooped up indoors when they began their slew of excursions with mild hikes in Florida.
"We started with baby steps," Chris said, "and she would giggle and laugh, and look up at me, and at some point she would say, 'More,' and sign language for more."
Throughout Kellisa's life, the Kains have gone through five different jog strollers, not counting the device they use now and that they ordered from France. The jog stroller, a Hippocampe chair, has three rugged wheels: two larger ones in the back on either side of the seat, and a smaller one in front. It has a handle so Chris can push her, or Kellisa can wheel herself.
Before getting the Hippocampe chair, Chris would adapt jog strollers he'd buy off the shelf, replacing tires until the structures would break.
"We would do stuff, and I would notice the bumpier and harder it was, the more she liked it," Chris said. "It could be ruts, rocks, just anything. She liked that, and that would give me the clue and the motivation to do more, and we kind of progressed and grew with what we were doing together."
Chris credits his daughter's sense of adventure to zipping around the state of Florida by car to attend different doctors' appointments. That included 69-mile one-way trips from home to Arnold Palmer Hospital for Children in Orlando about four times per week from the time Kellisa was 6 months to 2 years old. When the Kains relocated to Florida from Chicago when Kellisa was an infant, they sought warmer weather to avoid exposing Kellisa's weak lungs to bitter Midwestern winters. But because they didn't know what was in store for her health, they didn't know she would need to see so many specialists.
Inspired by his own childhood desire to flee urban Chicago to hike outdoors, Chris admitted that when he promised Kellisa he'd take her across the U.S., he didn't know whether it would be attainable.
"We didn't know whether Kellisa was going to live minute to minute, but it was something big that we could focus on," Chris said. "I needed to focus my mind on something other than all the alarms and doctors and nurses and surgeries, and I kind of got some peace with that."
Of all 50 U.S. states, only Iowa, Hawaii and Alaska are left.

(Promobricks/Facebook)
LEGO plans to launch its first collection to feature a disabled figurine in June. Metro.co.uk reported that the piece, which will depict a young boy in a wheelchair with his support dog, will be part of the brand's Fun in the Park set. The set also will include a cyclist, a man pushing his baby in a pram, a harassed businessman en route to work, and an ice cream seller.
LEGO's announcement follows a Change.org petition started by London-based advocates for the disabled. As of Thursday morning, the petition had garnered more than 20,000 supporters.
This isn't the first time LEGO has included a figurine of a person in a wheelchair, Metro.co.uk reported— the company previously featured someone in the assistive device as part of its Community People set. But LEGO received criticism because, of all the 20 total pieces that showed people with different occupations in a community, the man in the wheelchair was the only one who was elderly.

Carolyn Dawson, bariatric surgery patient looks at a diagram of her procedure at her surgeon Dr. Michael Snyder's office in Denver five days before her operation August 25, 2010. REUTERS/Rick Wilking
(Copyright Reuters 2015)
Weight loss surgery may be a cost-effective way of lowering blood sugar for many diabetics, not just those who are severely obese, a Swedish study suggests.
Researchers found that for people with diabetes, total healthcare costs did not rise in the years following weight-loss surgery, largely because of overall savings from less use of healthcare and medications.
For people with normal or merely elevated blood sugar below the cut-off for diabetes, the surgery was linked to higher costs afterward.
Though previous research has found that weight loss procedures, known as bariatric surgery, can lower blood sugar so much that diabetes essentially disappears, operations are still typically recommended only for extremely obese patients.
"Greater weight should be given to preoperative blood sugar status to help identify the patients who have the most benefit from bariatric surgery," study co-author Martin Neovius of the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm said by email. "We have shown previously that this makes sense from a health outcomes perspective, and now we show that it makes sense also from an economic perspective."

(Photo courtesy Paul Daugherty)
(Photo courtesy Paul Daugherty )
A father whose daughter with Down syndrome recently got married has written a letter for the new bride that will tug at the heartstrings of every parent and child.
"Do you remember all the stuff they said you'd never do, Jills?" Paul Daugherty, a sports columnist for the Cincinnati Enquirer, writes in the letter, which was posted Wednesday, Aug. 26 on the website The Mighty, to his daughter Jillian. "You wouldn't ride a two-wheeler or play sports. You wouldn't go to college. You certainly wouldn't get married. Now… look at you."
"You're the nicest person I know," the letter continues. "Someone who is able to live a life of empathy and sympathy, and without agendas or guile, is someone we all want to know. It worked out for you, because of the person you are."
ABC News reported that Jillian, 26, married her friend of 10 years, Ryan, whom she met while playing on a soccer team for teenagers with disabilities.
"I don't know what the odds are of a woman born with Down syndrome marrying the love of her life," he writes. "I only know you've beaten them."
Daugherty, who has also penned a memoir about raising his daughter, called "An Uncomplicated Life," described the newlyweds' Saturday, June 27 nuptials as dreamlike.
"I see you now. The prep work has been done, the door swings open. My little girl, all in white, crossing the threshold of yet another conquered dream. I stand breathless and transfixed, utterly in the moment. 'You look beautiful' is the best I can do."
Click for more from The Mighty and ABC News.

Diabetes is a huge problem in the United States today, and one that I don't believe is taken seriously enough.  According to statistics by the International Diabetes Federation, 552 million people – that's one in 10 adults – will have diabetes by 2030.
If correct, that would be a jump of more than 200 million people with type 2 diabetes over two decades. The World Health Organization estimates that there are about 346 million people who suffer from the disease today.
The projected rise is more due to aging that the obesity epidemic, the diabetes federation said, but we've also seen a rise recently in children and young adults developing diabetes. Twenty years ago, type 2 diabetes was virtually unheard of in people so young.
The thing is, type 2 diabetes is still entirely preventable with certain lifestyle changes. I always preach to my patients the importance of exercise and diet.
Another study has even identified five simple habits that can cut a person's risk of developing diabetes by as much as 80 percent.
Here's what you need to do:
-Have a healthy diet, including lots of fruits and vegetables
-Exercise three times a week for at least 20 minutes
-Maintain normal body weight (a BMI between 18.5 and 24.9)
-Abstain from smoking
-Consume alcohol in moderate amounts
Following all five guidelines was found to be most effective in preventing against diabetes, but scientists said the single most effective factor was maintaining a normal body weight.
Men of normal weight were 70 percent less likely to develop diabetes than overweight or obese men, while normal weight women were 78 percent less likely to develop diabetes.
However, overweight people who adopted just one of the other healthy lifestyle factors, such as exercising three times a week, could still reduce their risk of diabetes.
Dr. Manny Alvarez serves as Fox News Channel's senior managing health editor. He also serves as chairman of the department of obstetrics/gynecology and reproductive science at Hackensack University Medical Center in New Jersey. For more information on Dr. Manny's work, visit AskDrManny.com.

A person receives a test for diabetes during Care Harbor LA free medical clinic in Los Angeles, California September 11, 2014. REUTERS/Mario Anzuoni
(Copyright Reuters 2015)
In a head-to-head comparison over 15 years, diet and exercise outperformed the drug metformin in preventing people at high risk for diabetes from developing the disease.
Metformin, which helps control blood sugar and can be used alone or in combination with insulin to treat type 2 diabetes, also lowered the risk of developing the disorder in the study group, just not as much as making healthy lifestyle changes did.
"The lifestyle intervention was more powerful in preventing or delaying diabetes development during the original three-year Diabetes Prevention Program and remains more powerful over the entire 15-year study," said professor David M. Nathan of George Washington University in Rockville, Maryland, a coauthor of the new paper.
"However, there are specific subgroups in which the lifestyle intervention had an even more powerful effect - specifically, those older than age 60," Nathan told Reuters Health by email. Metformin was relatively more effective in people younger than 60 and those who were more obese, he said.
The researchers followed up with the surviving participants of a diabetes prevention study between 1996 and 2001 that compared people randomly assigned to either an intensive lifestyle intervention or 850 milligrams of metformin twice daily and a group taking a placebo.

Five years after weight loss surgery, obese patients may regain many of the pounds they initially shed, a new study from Israel suggests.
While surgery remains more effective for lasting weight loss than alternatives such as dieting and exercising, said lead study author Dr. Andrei Keidar, the study findings suggest that doctors still have more to learn about which patients will get the most benefit from operations and what strategies can make the initial results stick.
"The first year after surgery is usually a honeymoon period that should be used for coining new habits, and the ones that don't do that regain weight," Keidar, a researcher at Tel Aviv University, said by email. "Don't take surgery as a panacea – beware of bad eating habits."
Globally, 1.9 billion adults are overweight or obese, according to the World Health Organization. Obesity increases the risk of heart disease, diabetes, joint disorders and certain cancers.
Surgical weight loss has gained traction in recent years, but it is not risk free. And with these particular operations patients can become malnourished.
In the U.S. alone, roughly 180,000 people get these procedures each year, according to the American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery (ASMBS). The most common operation is what's known as a sleeve gastrectomy, which reduces the stomach to the size of a banana, followed by a surgery known as Roux-en-Y that creates an even smaller stomach pouch.
Keidar and colleagues followed 443 obese patients who had sleeve gastrectomy procedures to see how much weight they lost and whether they experienced improvements in other health problems tied to obesity such as diabetes, hypertension and high cholesterol.
After one year, the participants still in the study had lost 77 percent of their body weight on average, but they slid back toward to their original weight as time passed. At three years, they were still down by 70 percent of their original weight, and just 56 percent at five years.
About half of the patients with diabetes experienced complete remission after one year, with their previously elevated blood sugar returning to a healthy range common in people without the disease. In this, too, patients backslid over time, with just 38 percent in complete remission after three years and only 20 percent at five years.
Participants experienced significant reductions in levels of low-density lipoprotein (LDL), the bad kind of cholesterol, at one year and three years, but at five years the change was so small it might have been due to chance.
Roughly 46 percent of people with hypertension returned to a normal blood pressure at one year and at five years.
One shortcoming of the study is that many patients dropped out at each stage, leaving results for very few participants at five years, the researchers note in JAMA Surgery.
"There are still critical gaps in knowledge about the long-term (5 years and longer) results of bariatric surgery," Dr. Anita Courcoulas, author of an editorial accompanying the study and chief of bariatric surgery at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, said by email.
A separate study in the journal examined the effects of alcohol consumption after Roux-en-Y operations. Researchers found that after surgery, patients who drank the same amount they did before the operation experienced a much faster increase in blood alcohol levels, which were about twice as high as they would have been before surgery.
"Because blood alcohol levels are doubled after surgery, people could engage in risky drinking when drinking only moderate amounts of alcohol," lead study author Marta Yanina Pepino of the University of Washington School of Medicine in Seattle, said by email.
This issue, as well as the potential to regain some weight initially lost, shouldn't deter obese patients from considering operations, said Dr. John Morton, ASMBS president and head of bariatric surgery at Stanford University School of Medicine in California.
"You get meaningful health changes with just a 5 percent weight loss, so losing 50 percent after five years is still a heck of a lot of improvement," he said. "These are the sickest of the sick who seek out bariatric surgery, and the vast majority of patients benefit."

Illustration. An overweight South African threatened with deportation from New Zealand because of his obesity has been granted a 23-month reprieve.
(AFP/Illustration)
Weight-loss surgery may help reduce urinary incontinence in extremely obese people, a study suggests.
Researchers followed nearly 2,500 obese men and women who had so-called bariatric surgery, which alters the stomach or intestines to induce weight loss.
Before the surgery, nearly half the women and about a fifth of the men had experienced urinary incontinence. A year later, the rate of incontinence was down to about 18 percent in women and 10 percent in men.
Non-surgical weight loss may also curb incontinence. But surgery might be recommended for people who are more than 100 pounds heavier than their ideal body weight or who have weight-related medical problems like diabetes, particularly if they haven't been able to achieve a healthy weight by dieting.
Better urinary control can result from decreased pressure on the bladder and pelvic floor, improvements in other risk factors such as diabetes or inflammation, or from lifestyle changes, said lead study author Dr. Leslee Subak, a urogynecologist at the University of California, San Francisco.
"Obesity is a strong risk factor for incontinence," Subak said by email. "Improvement in incontinence is one of many benefits of bariatric surgery."
Subak and colleagues studied 2,458 obese patients getting bariatric surgery to see whether incontinence went into remission after the operation, meaning it occurred less than weekly.  More than three-fourths of the participants were women, and half were at least 47 years old.
About 80 percent of the patients, or 1,987 people, completed follow-up assessments.
Before the surgery, about 49 percent of women reported urinary incontinence.  After one year, the women on average lost about 30 percent of their body weight, and only about 18 percent of them reported being incontinent. At the three-year mark, the rate of incontinence had climbed back up slightly, to around 25 percent.
At the start, nearly 22 percent of the men reported problems with incontinence. The men had lost an average of 27 percent of their body weight after one year, when about 10 percent of them reported being incontinent. By three years, roughly 12 percent of them were incontinent.
Because the study only included people who got bariatric surgery, rather than comparing a surgical and non-surgical group, it can't prove that the procedure causes a reduction in incontinence, the researchers acknowledge in JAMA Internal Medicine. Patients may have also under- or over-estimated the frequency of bladder difficulties when they reported this to researchers.
It's possible that participants fared better after one year than after three years because they regained some of the weight they initially lost, Dr. Deborah Myers, a professor of obstetrics and gynecology at Brown University and author of an editorial accompanying the study, said by email.
Because frequent urinary incontinence can significantly worsen quality of life, addressing this problem might help motivate some obese patients who are good candidates for bariatric surgery to consider this option, said Dr. Holly Richter, a urogynecologist at the University of Alabama at Birmingham.
As with any major surgery, bariatric operations pose potential serious health risks, both short-term and long-term, and patients should discuss those with their doctors if they're considering the procedures.
Overall, however, bariatric surgery "has significant effects on improving overall health and the conditions of diabetes, heart disease, osteoarthritis, hyperlipidemia and sleep apnea," Richter, who wasn't involved in the study, said by email. "Weight loss is a proven treatment for urinary incontinence."

Everyone wants the secret to living longer.
But, guess what? There isn't just one way to prevent aging.
Here are some tips that may help keep you young.
1. Always wear sunscreen.
Applying it daily will reduce the sun's harmful effects on your skin – and make you appear younger.
Use a product that has UVA and UVB protection. This will ensure you are blocking out both the cancer-causing and aging rays.
2. Try to eat a Mediterranean diet.
Consuming vegetables, olive oil, fish and wine – in moderation – has been shown to slow an aging mind.
This type of nutrition is also linked to a lower risk of heart disease, diabetes and certain cancers.
3. Exercise in order to stay sharp.
Doing crossword puzzles, reading and catching up with friends will work your brain muscles. Don't forget to incorporate some physical activity into your day as well.
4. Reduce stress.
Deep breathing exercises, such as yoga, or even a change of pace, can help. Keeping your anxiety at bay will ward off signs of aging. If you are stressed, you will look and feel much older.
Dr. Manny Alvarez serves as Fox News Channel's senior managing health editor. He also serves as chairman of the department of obstetrics/gynecology and reproductive science at Hackensack University Medical Center in New Jersey. For more information on Dr. Manny's work, visit AskDrManny.com.

Finding the right skin care products for your routine can be difficult, especially if you want to avoid conventional cosmetics, harmful chemicals, or animal testing. But did you know that you can make your own cosmetics and skin care products from all natural and even organic ingredients? Making your own organic beauty products is much easier than you think! With just a few simple ingredients, you can create a daily routine that is free of chemicals and good for you and the planet.
SubHeading DIY Moisturizer to Beat the Winter Blues
This is a great moisturizer that will keep your skin looking smooth and fresh during the cold, dry winter months. It's so simple to make that you won't miss your expensive little tubs of commercial goop one bit!
What you need: • 1/3 cup aloe vera gel (don't use juice or aloe from a plant, as the cream won't whip properly) • 2 tablespoons sweet almond oil • 2 tablespoons jojoba oil • 1/2 tablespoon beeswax • 10 drops lavender essential oil
Method: In a double boiler, gently heat the almond and jojoba oils with the beeswax. If you don't have a double boiler, you can simply use a glass or metal bowl over a pot of simmering water on the stove. Once melted, transfer your mixture to a deep mixing bowl so it won't splash out. Leave to cool for an hour until it reaches room temperature. Now start to blend your mixture with a hand blender. Pour in the essential oil and slowly start adding the aloe vera. Add aloe (mixing continuously) until you reach the desired consistency. Store in an airtight container.

Makeup is supposed to make you look even more beautiful, but that beauty comes at a cost when you consider the toxic chemicals that are lurking in most brands of eye shadows, liners, mascaras, makeup brushes, eyelash curlers and false-lash adhesives.
Experts say using these chemicals can lead to red, scaly eyelids, blood-shot eyes, dry eye disease, and serious long-term health conditions.
What's more, although more than 1,300 chemicals are banned from cosmetics in Europe, only 11 are in the U.S.
Here are for 10 chemicals to avoid and ways you can find better alternatives.
1. Carbon black Carbon black is a powder found in eyeliner, mascara, eye shadow and eyebrow shadow and has been linked to cancer and organ system toxicity.
It will show up on the label as carbon black, D & C Black No. 2, acetylene black, channel black, furnace black, lamp black and thermal black.
2. Ethanolamine compounds "The problem with ethanolamines is that they can be contaminated with cancer-causing chemicals called nitrosamines," said Janet Nudelman, director of program and policy at the Breast Cancer Fund and director of the Campaign for Safe Cosmetics.
To spot ethanolamines, avoid products that contain ingredients with the letters DEA, TEA and MEA.
3. BAK  Benzalkonium chloride (BAK) is a preservative found in eyeliner, mascara and makeup remover.  BAK is well documented to be toxic to the epithelial cells of the eyes. These cells keep dust, water and bacteria out of the eye and provide a smooth surface on the cornea to absorb and distribute oxygen and cell nutrients from tears to the rest of the cornea.
BAK can be listed under various names including benzalkonium chloride, quaternium-15 or guar hydroxypropyltrimonium chloride.
4. Prime yellow carnauba wax Used in mascara and eyeliners to stiffen the product and make them waterproof, prime yellow carnauba wax clogs the oil glands in the eyes and can lead to dry eye disease, which affects 3.2 million women age 50 and older, according to the National Institutes of Health.
Using products that contain waxes isn't a good idea, although Japan wax might be a safer alternative, said Dr. Leslie E. O'Dell, director of the Dry Eye Center of Pennsylvania in Mechanicsburg and Manchester.
5. Formaldehyde and formaldehyde-releasing preservatives Formaldehyde and preservatives that release the chemical are strongly linked to allergic reactions and cancer. Formaldehyde can be listed as such on the label but it might also be listed as quaternium-15, DMDM hydantoin and urea.

Reality television star Kylie Jenner arrives at the 2015 MTV Video Music Awards in Los Angeles, California, August 30, 2015.  REUTERS/Danny Moloshok - RTX1QC7U
A Utah woman who lost her natural eyelashes after getting extensions may serve as a cautionary tale for women considering the cosmetic procedure, which has been popularized by celebrities like reality TV star Kylie Jenner.
Michelle Lundberg, of Sandy, a suburb of Salt Lake City, told Fox 13 Now that she suffered itchy eyes and a rash on her eyelids after getting false eyelashes applied at an unnamed salon. When she tried to have the lashes removed, her natural lashes broke off.
"It took weeks and weeks and weeks for them to grow back to normal," Lundberg told the news station.
Consumer Reports issued a warning in 2013 about the potential dangers of  false eyelashes, including allergic reactions and infections. The group advises consumers avoid eyelash extensions and opt for mascara instead.
Salt Lake City-based ophthalmologist Mark Mifflin told Fox13Now.com that false eyelashes can cause side effects as minor as itchiness and redness, but also as major as a corneal infection. He explained an abrasion of the cornea is like a scratch, "but sometimes those can actually become infected and that can lead to scarring," which can lead to eyesight loss.

WASHINGTON –  Two U.S. senators introduced legislation Monday that would require the Food and Drug Administration to evaluate and report on some of the ingredients used in cosmetics and personal-care products such as shampoo and skin cream.
The bill would require the FDA to investigate at least five ingredients each year. The reviews would lead to the agency providing guidance about whether ingredients should continue to be used, and if so, at what concentration levels.
Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein of California and Republican Senator Susan Collins of Maine, the bill's sponsors, said that federal regulations of the ingredients in cosmetics and personal-care products haven't been updated for 75 years.
"From shampoo to lotion, the use of personal care products is widespread, however, there are very few protections in place to ensure their safety," Feinstein said in a news release.
Most bills introduced don't make it into law. But Feinstein and Collins have support from a wide array of consumer groups and companies, including Johnson & Johnson, Revlon and Proctor & Gamble. A trade association representing more than 600 companies is also supporting the bill.
The Environmental Working Group said that the current regulatory system allows companies to put potentially dangerous chemicals in personal-care products without having to prove they are safe. The group, which maintains a database of 68,000 products to help consumers, said the bill was long overdue.
The bill also stipulates the first five chemicals the FDA would be required to review, including a form of formaldehyde used in hair-smoothing treatments and a chemical that mimics estrogen.
Under the legislation, the FDA would have the authority to order product recalls or to require warning labels. Companies would also be required to provide contact information to consumers and to report any serious adverse events to the FDA within 15 days of receiving a report.
The FDA's investigation of the chemicals would be paid for through a user fee for similar to what is paid by manufacturers of medications and medical devices.

Cosmeticians probably won't agree, but scientists say eyelashes have an optimal length: a third of the width of the eye.
This ratio helps keep the eyes wet, according to a new study that attempts to answer the question: What are eyelashes for anyway?
"They've been hypothesized to act as sun shades, dust catchers and blink-reflex triggers," said David Hu, a mechanical engineer at the Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta. "But there's been no really systematic study of what their true benefits are." [The 12 Weirdest Animal Discoveries]
Rather than poke around the eyes of live snow leopards and wild boars, Hu and his colleagues went to see the lashes on animal pelts in the basement of the American Museum of Natural History in New York. They took measurements of the eye openings and lashes of a diverse group of 22 mammals, ranging from the Amur hedgehog, whose beady little eyes are just a fraction of a centimeter in diameter, to giraffes, whose eyes are about 1.5 inches (4 cm) across. (For comparison, the human eye opening is about three quarters of an inch, or 20 millimeters.)
The researchers discovered that lashes get predictably longer as the eyes get bigger. On average, animals' eyelashes were a third of the width of their eye opening.
"We found that there's a pretty good trend for how lashes change with eye width," Hu told Live Science. "That's quite striking because in the mammal-hair literature, you don't see many trends. Hair is usually a function of habitat, activity, things like that."
Hu and colleagues suspected eyelash length might have something to do with channeling airflow, and they devised an experiment to find out. In the lab, the researchers made mock human eyes out of small petri dishes fitted with fake eyelashes of different lengths and a bit of water, meant to mimic the thin tear film on the surface of the eye. The researchers tested how quickly water would dry up from the dishes in a low-speed wind tunnel. They found that the lashes of optimal length were the best for preventing evaporation.
Eyelashes create a "speed bump" that diverts airflow away from the surface of the eye, Hu said, so having no lashes would leave the eyes vulnerable to evaporation and incoming particles like bacteria that can cause infections. You might expect this speed bump to get more effective as it gets bigger, Hu said, but eyelashes that are too long might actually funnel airflow into the eye, causing more evaporation and drying the eyes.
At this point you might be wondering: Are you telling me I should toss my fake eyelashes? Well, maybe not. But perhaps you should take your beauty cues from the camel.
"The more dense you could make your eyelashes, the better it would be," Hu said.
Camels have two rows of dense eyelashes — likely an extra defense against the dry, sand-laden desert air. Eyelashes of high density (or low "porosity" as the researchers say) are better at blocking airflow from the surface of the eye, the experiments showed.
This benefit might even hold true for humans with unnaturally long lashes. In their paper, Hu and colleagues wrote that "wearing curved false eyelashes of low porosity can potentially provide extra protection to the eye and reduce dry eye."
The study, led by Guillermo Amador, a graduate student in Hu's lab, was published today (Feb. 24) in the Journal of the Royal Society Interface. (Last year, Hu's lab found another peculiar rule in the animal kingdom: most mammals take 21 seconds to pee.)
In Photos: Mantis Shrimp Show Off Googly Eyes
Photos: Best Wild Animal Selfies
7 Most Misleading Animal Names
Copyright 2015 LiveScience, a Purch company. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

It's no secret that most women wear makeup every day. A product that was first used by ancient Egyptians is now a multibillion dollar cosmetic industry. However, a growing concern over the safety of certain makeup ingredients has created a new view on our favorite beauty products.
"I decided to switch over to organic makeup about halfway through my modeling career," Anna Lisa Wagner, a Ford model, told FoxNews.com. "There is a lot of makeup out there that has toxins in them and it can really be detrimental to your health or even just your image."
Many environmental safety groups encourage consumers to stop using cosmetic products that contain chemical ingredients like parabens and phalates, claiming that they are linked to adverse health effects like cancer and birth defects. But while these accusations sound alarming, not all experts agree.
"[For] the groups that say organic is better and they point to the dangers of the other products, it's often based on studies that weren't published or are taking things out of context," Dr. Doris Day, a clinical associate professor of dermatology at the New York University Langone Medical Center told FoxNews.com. "The studies that I've seen that claim things like parabens are harmful or cause breast cancer, there's nothing substantiated from those."
Parabens are used in many cosmetics as preservatives to help prevent bacteria from growing in the product.

A Chinese child complaining of irritated eyes learned the source of her discomfort was 20 lice that doctors found had burrowed into her eyelashes.
Central European News (CEN) reported that the 4-year-old girl, Dandan, suffered from itchy, red eyes, but her mother couldn't figure out what was wrong until she took her to a hospital in East China's Fujian Province, where doctors located the parasites.
"I checked the girl's eyelashes on her eye and found a black, sticky substance by the base," doctor Liu Zhaosheng, director of opthamology at the First Affiliated Hospital of Xiamen University, told CEN.  "On closer inspection, we found that these were eyelash lice and their discharge. This is what was causing the itching."
Doctors removed Dandan's eyelashes, and then disinfected and cleaned her eyes at the base.
Liu said the infection may have occurred because Dandan's clothes and bedding likely weren't changed enough. They advised her parents to make sure she showers regularly.
He told CEN that Dandan was the youngest patient he'd treated for a parasitic infection in his 20 years of seeing similar cases.

Celebrities spark beauty and style inspiration among their fans all the time, but the latest trend has teens dangerously trying to emulate the lips of reality TV star Kylie Jenner.
The 17-year-old "Keeping Up With The Kardashians" cast member is known for her plump lips, which co-star Scott Disick claimed took her 40 minutes to draw on. Jenner denied rumors of plastic surgery and said lip liner was the secret.
Now, teens are trying to enhance their lips, sparking the trending Twitter topic #kyliejennerchallenge. One method to get a "natural" pout is by putting your lips into a small glass and sucking as hard as you can, USA Today reported. This causes the lips to briefly swell, as they would with a cosmetic injection.
However, the downside is that this method can cause serious pain, bruising and scarring around the mouth, as evidenced by images popping up on social media.
This is all @sorryimalex's fault #kyliejennerchallenge #kyliejennerlips pic.twitter.com/ftxiWdnWwB
— ?lexie? (@Lexie_Chadss)
April 18, 2015
Don't do it.. it will bruise your lips.. Or I did it wrong #kyliejennerchallenge pic.twitter.com/gGm22NCQ1f
— Anna (@AnnaIstas)
April 20, 2015
Made my chin look like a hickey a week ago and I'll say iv never felt so dumb #kyliejennerchallenge pic.twitter.com/gI2q2z99Cq
— Emma Burke (@emmaburkie)
April 20, 2015
i screwed up. #kyliejennerchallenge #uhoh ?? pic.twitter.com/Mdf4bcZdUP
— zoë (@_zoeymcguire)
April 20, 2015
"You're creating an injury to your lips, that's why they swell," Dr. Scot Glasberg, president of the American Society of Plastic Surgeons (ASPS), told FoxNews.com. "It's like punching yourself in the face or running your face into the wall."
Over time, these self-created injuries will heal, Glasberg said, but there is the potential for ulcerations and scar tissue in the lips.
"The whole thing is just pretty silly and irresponsible," he said.
Click for more from USA Today.
FoxNews.com's Nicole Kwan contributed to this report.

You probably don't give much thought to your thyroid, but the small butterfly-shaped gland in your neck—normally measuring between 4 and 6 centimeters or 1.5 to 2.5 inches wide—has a huge impact on your entire body. The thyroid produces thyroid hormone (TH), which regulates your body's metabolism, heartbeat, temperature, mood, and other important processes—reaching out to nearly every, single cell in your body. More than 30 million Americans have a thyroid disorder and an excess of 60,000 Americans are affected by thyroid cancer annually.
If you're relatively young and otherwise healthy, you may not be too concerned with the "c" word. But I know from experience that thyroid cancer can blindside you: at age 33, I was diagnosed with the disease after my doctor discovered a lump in my neck at a routine annual physical. Here's what you should know.
RELATED: What It's Really Like to Have Thyroid Cancer
2 in 3 cases are in people younger than 55 Though cancer in general is rare in young people, most thyroid cancer patients are younger than 55, and about 2 percent of thyroid cancers occur in children and teens.  "It is not that thyroid cancer is 'plaguing' younger people, but cancers that are common in older people, like prostate and lung, don't occur in younger people," said Dr. Melanie Goldfarb, endocrine surgeon and director of the Endocrine Tumor Program at Providence Saint John's Health Center in Santa Monica.
She also added that thyroid cancer is the number-one cancer in women ages 15 to 29 and the second most common (behind breast cancer) for women ages 30 to 39.
Women are more at risk Women account for 75 percent of all thyroid cancer cases, but experts aren't sure why, said Dr. Steven I. Sherman, associate vice provost and clinical research chair at the University of Texas MD Anderson Medical Center in Houston.
"There is a correlation between increased risk for thyroid cancer for a woman between the puberty and menopause years, but there are no conclusive results it has anything to do with hormones," Sherman said.
Some studies suggest estrogen is a growth factor both for benign and malignant thyroid cells, further suggesting gender plays a role in the prevalence of thyroid nodules and thyroid cancer, though more research is needed to solidify this claim.
RELATED: 19 Signs Your Thyroid Isn't Working Right
Symptoms can be sneaky "Most patients don't have symptoms, but could have discomfort in the neck or feel a lump," said Dr. Kenneth D. Burman, director of the Endocrine Section at Washington Hospital Center in Washington, DC. "Patients with medullary cancer may present with unexplained diarrhea."
I never noticed the lump in my neck until my doctor slid my fingers over it and asked, "How did you not feel this?" I remember telling her that no one ever suggested I check my neck. I was only in the habit of doing a self-exam on my breasts. When I paid more attention in the mirror, I could actually see the lump move when I swallowed. The oncologist immediately picked up on my hoarse voice, the result of the mass pressing on my trachea and vocal cords. He also asked me if I had any trouble swallowing in the past few months. I did, but never guessed that it was related to my thyroid.
There's more than one type of thyroid cancer About 80 percent of thyroid cancers are papillary carcinomas—the most common and least aggressive cancer of the thyroid. These grow very slowly and usually develop in only one of the two lobes that make up the gland. While papillary carcinomas often spread to the lymph nodes in the neck, these cancers can usually be treated successfully and are rarely fatal.
There are several subtypes of papillary carcinoma, one being what I have: papillary-follicular variant. This unique type of cancer is found in about 25 percent of patients—it seems to present and behave in a more aggressive fashion and has a higher rate of central nodal metastasis (meaning it spreads from the thyroid to the closest lymph node, usually in the throat). When found early, this subtype has a good prognosis. (It does! I'm proof!)
The less-common types of thyroid cancer After papillary carcinoma, the next most-common type of thyroid cancer is follicular carcinoma, which accounts for about 1 in 10 thyroid cancer cases. It's more prevalent in countries where people aren't ingesting enough iodine through their diet. While these cancers usually do not spread to lymph nodes, they can spread to other parts of the body, commonly the lungs or bones.
Next is medullary thyroid carcinoma, accounting for 4 percent of cases. This type grows in C cells, so-called because they normally produce calcitonin, a hormone involved in calcium metabolism. It is easier to control and treat if it's caught early on before it has a chance to spread to other parts of the body.
RELATED: 5 Everyday Foods That Fight Cancer
The rare and more aggressive forms of thyroid cancer Anaplastic carcinoma makes up 2 percent of all thyroid cancer cases, and was made famous by the 2012 bestseller The Fault In Our Stars ($11; amazon.com ) (the main character, a teen with this cancer, was played by Shailene Woodley in the movie). It is thought to sometimes develop from an existing papillary or follicular cancer. This cancer often spreads quickly into the neck and to other parts of the body, and is very hard to treat.
Thyroid lymphoma is also a rare form of thyroid cancer that begins in the immune system cells in the thyroid and grows very quickly. Thyroid lymphoma typically occurs in older adults.
There are thyroid cancer risk factors While the exact cause of most thyroid cancers is not known, several risk factors have been linked to the disease. Radiation to the head and neck is one of them, said Dr. Burman.
"It is difficult to know if any cases are specifically related to medical X-rays, however," he said.
This is interesting to me because at 14, I was diagnosed with severe scoliosis (the abnormal curvature of the spin.) I underwent dozens of X-rays of my neck and spinal cord during diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis. Did that radiation exposure give me cancer? I can only speculate.
Other risk factors include nuclear power plant accidents or weapons testing, a diet low in iodine (not a risk for most Americans), family history, and genetics.
Ultrasounds help diagnose thyroid cancer Thyroid cancer incidence has doubled since the 1970s, but that's likely due to early surveillance and heightened awareness.
"Thyroid ultrasound was in its infancy about 30 years ago—now they are being prescribed for any swelling of the neck," said Dr. David Myssiorek, an otolaryngologist at NYU Langone Medical Center.
Similar to an ultrasound technician dropping a blob of cold lubricant on a pregnant woman's belly, the same is done on the neck region. The tool used looks exactly like the one administered to track a fetus' growth.
"An ultrasound of the neck area is performed to evaluate a thyroid for a mass," Myssiorek said. "Additionally, ultrasound may play a role in determining where and how a biopsy is obtained after localizing a thyroid nodule."
PET scans also help diagnose thyroid cancer For a positron emission tomography (PET) scan, a radioactive substance is injected into the blood. Cancer cells absorb more of the substance than normal cells, which makes them show up on the scan. PET scans are often used to determine whether thyroid cancer has spread because it can look for cancer all over the body.
I had a PET scan before and after treatment. The 40-minute test took place on a table and scanned my entire body. I hated that I needed to remain completely still throughout the test, nor did I like when a metal plate hovered just an inch from my face.
RELATED: 19 Medical Tests Women Need
Most treatments coincide, but surgery is first Surgery is the main treatment in nearly every case of thyroid cancer, except for some anaplastic thyroid cancers. At first, I had a thyroid lobectomy where my oncologist removed the right lobe and tumor. Further pathology determined I needed a complete thyroidectomy to remove the remaining thyroid gland. Risks involved with thyroid surgery include accidental damage to the nerves connected to your vocal cords, which can cause vocal cord paralysis, hoarseness, soft voice, or difficulty breathing.
Thyroidectomy leads to lifetime of meds After someone has a complete thyroidectomy, they need to take medication to replace thyroid hormone to maintain the body's normal metabolism. Hormone therapy also stops any remaining cancer cells from growing by lowering TSH levels. The patient's doctor tests hormone levels with a blood test every few months until the proper dosage of medication is determined.
Radioactive iodine treatment is common Radioactive iodine treatment (RAI) is often used after the thyroid is removed to destroy any remaining thyroid tissue, as well as microscopic areas of thyroid cancer that weren't removed during surgery. The dose is taken in pill or liquid form and patients are required to be isolated from other people for at least three to five days.
Before undergoing this type of therapy, patients are advised to go on a low iodine diet to ultimately starve their body of iodine, an element that is essential for the production of thyroid hormone. When iodine is reintroduced through RAI it will kill remaining thyroid tissue and cancer cells.
"Think of thyroid tissue like a sponge," Sherman said. "For a sponge to soak up a maximum amount of water, first it must be wrung out of all the water it already contained."
Chemo and external beam radiation therapy aren't as common "Both of these therapies are not commonly used to treat thyroid cancer," said Khoi Dao, medical oncologist with Comprehensive Cancer Centers of Nevada. "Chemotherapy may benefit some people with thyroid cancer who don't respond to RAI."
Chemo is administered as an infusion through a vein to kill cancer cells using chemicals. "External beam radiation therapy may be an option if you can't undergo surgery and your cancer continues to grow after radioactive iodine treatment," Dao said.
Another treatment is called "alcohol ablation." This involves injecting small thyroid cancers with alcohol using guided ultrasound imaging to ensure precise placement of the injection. "This treatment is helpful for treating cancer that occurs in areas that aren't easily accessible during surgery and is not widely used to treat thyroid cancer," Dao said.
Sometimes thyroid cancer may be called a "good" cancer The five-year survival rate is 98 percent when papillary, follicular, and medullary thyroid cancers are caught early and has not spread past the gland. There are fewer than 2,000 deaths in the U.S. due to thyroid cancer each year. This is encouraging news to thyroid cancer survivors and newly diagnosed patients. That said, as someone in the trenches, it doesn't make treatment any easier. Hearing the words "You have cancer" is a life-altering blow.
"I have yet to discover a 'good' cancer," Myssiorek said. "Admittedly [thyroid cancers] are less aggressive, but anyone who says they are good, doesn't have one."
Self-examining your neck is advisable and easy Myssiorek said to feel for the Adam's apple in your neck, the bulky cartilage that moves up and down when you swallow. Slide your fingers down until you feel the next prominent cartilage. Then place your fingers on either side of that prominence (just above the notch at the base of the neck) and swallow. If you have a problem, you should be able to feel lumps. Don't wait—see a doctor, fast.
RELATED: 27 Mistakes Healthy People Make

A group of chemicals commonly used in cosmetics and other personal-care products may stimulate the growth of breast cancer cells at doses much lower than previously thought, a new study finds.
The study was done on human breast cancer cells growing in lab dishes, and it's unclear whether these chemicals, called parabens, act the same in the human body. But the chemicals have been shown in previous lab and animal studies to mimic the activity of the hormone estrogen, meaning they can bind to receptors in the body to which estrogen normally binds.This is a concern because when estrogen binds to estrogen receptors, it causes cells to multiply, and in women this increases breast cancer risk, said Dr. Dale Leitman, an adjunct professor of nutritional sciences and toxicology at the University of California, Berkeley, and the senior author on the study.
Parabens are a type of chemical preservative, and are found in a wide array of consumer products, including shampoos, body lotions and sunscreens.
It's also known that parabens can activate the same pathway as estrogen, but previous studies have found that they do so very weakly, Leitman told Live Science. "Because they're weak, they're assumed to be safe compounds," especially based on the levels of parabens that have been found in humans, he said. [What Is Estrogen?]
But previous studies looked at just the parabens by themselves, Leitman said.
"The real problem when you do studies in the laboratory is that you study one compound at a time, but in the body, that's not the case. What you're seeing in the body is really a combination" of the effects of many compounds, Leitman said.
In the new study, published today (Oct. 27) in the journal Environmental Health Perspectives, the researchers focused on the effects of parabens when mixed with one additional compound: a type of growth factor called heregulin that has also been linked to breast cancer cell growth.
In experiments, the researchers looked at how well the cells grew when they were exposed to both parabens and heregulin, compared with how the cells grew when exposed only to parabens. The scientists found that when they added heregulin, they could drop the level of parabens by 100 times and the cancer cells would still multiply faster than those without heregulin.
In other words, when the heregulin was added, the parabens were 100 times more potent at stimulating cancer cell growth compared with breast cancer cells exposed to only parabens.
With this increased potency, parabens may have an effect at a level that could be seen in humans, Leitman said.
Still, Leitman stressed that more studies are needed to determine the safety of the chemicals. Lab studies and animal studies are indirect ways of estimating the potential hazards of parabens, Leitman noted.
"All we can say from our study is that in order to determine how safe the parabens are … [we need] to test them not by themselves but with other chemicals that stimulate cell proliferation," he said.
Dr. Jiangang Chen, an assistant professor of public health at the University of Tennessee Knoxville who was not involved in the study, agreed.
"The study, like others published, only demonstrated the effects in the cells, which may not reflect the same scenario as in an intact biological system," Chen told Live Science. But additional studies have also indicated that other compounds may also contribute to how parabens affect breast cancer risk, Chen said.
Indeed, the study raises concerns that the "safe levels" of parabens used in cosmetic products should be re-evaluated, he said.
However, more research is ultimately required before a conclusion can be reached regarding the safety of parabens, Chen said.
12 Worst Hormone-Disrupting Chemicals & Their Health Effects
Top 5 Ways to Reduce Toxins in Homes
6 Foods That May Affect Breast Cancer Risk
Copyright 2015 LiveScience, a Purch company. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

The female breast is a remarkable collection of glands and fatty tissue that lies between the skin and the chest wall. Its main function is to produce milk for a baby.
Inside this collection of glands are lobules where milk is produced. There are also blood vessels that feed into these glands, as well as lymphatic vessels that lead into the breast, making the breast a hyperdynamic structure of fatty tissues, glands, blood vessels, and lymphatic vessels.
But the very things that make this structure so remarkable also make it highly dangerous when cancer occurs. When cells in the breast grow out of control and form cancerous tumors, they can easily and rapidly spread via those blood vessels and lymphatic vessels into nearby tissues and other parts of the body.
Every woman is at risk for developing breast cancer. About 200,000 cases are diagnosed every year, and it is second only to lung cancer in the number of deaths caused among American women annually. In terms of lifetime risk, that means that one out of eight women will develop breast cancer, and one out of 28 will die from it.
All women age 40 and older are at risk for breast cancer, though most breast cancers occur in women over the age of 50.
Some risk factors for breast cancer are avoidable. Taking birth control pills or hormone replacement therapy, not breast-feeding after having a child, having two to five alcoholic drinks a day, being overweight, and not exercising all increase the risk for breast cancer.
But most of the factors that put a woman at risk for breast cancer are unavoidable. Getting older is one risk you can do nothing about. Being Caucasian is another. Having a family history of breast cancer in a sister or mother doubles your risk. The risk also increases if you had your first period before the age of 12, had menopause after the age of 50, or never had children.
There are some genetic mutations, especially in Jewish families, such as the BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations, which women may inherit from their parents, and which result in a 50 percent chance of getting breast cancer before the age of 70.
Every effort is being made to prevent breast cancer. But since, unlike with lung cancer, there's no clear cause of breast cancer, all we can do right now is manage the risk factors.
Avoid excess alcohol and long-term estrogen replacement therapy, watch your weight, exercise regularly, and, if you have a child, be sure to breast-feed. If you have a familial genetic predispositions based on the mutation of BRCA1 or BRCA2, or a history of breast cancer in the family, you can take certain drugs like tamoxifen or raloxifene, which have been found to be effective in preventing breast cancer.
If your mother or sister had breast cancer, you should begin screening for the disease 10 years before the age at which they were diagnosed. (If your mother got breast cancer at the age of 47, for instance, you should begin screening at age 37.)
Screening tests for breast cancer are fundamental. The most important thing a woman can do to minimize her chances of getting breast cancer is to have regular mammograms, to learn how to perform breast self-examination, to actually perform the breast self-examinations, and to undergo regular physicals. The earlier the breast cancer is picked up, the more effective the treatment and the more curable the disease.
Many times a mammogram can pick up a tumor before it is even felt. Women should get a yearly mammogram starting at the age of 40 (earlier for those with a family history of the disease or a genetic mutation that increases the risk of breast cancer). Women between the ages of 20 to 39 should have clinical breast exams at least every two to three years and then annually after the age of 40.
What to Expect at Your First Mammogram
The entire mammography exam, during which a medical technician takes two images of each breast, lasts about 15 minutes. You will be asked to stand in front of the mammography machine and place your breast on a small platform. The technician will lower a plastic plate directly on top of the breast to compress it in order to get a clear view of the tissue.
This is not normally painful, but it may be somewhat uncomfortable. (If you have very sensitive breasts, take acetaminophen or ibuprofen a half hour before your appointment.)
The breast will be compressed for less than 30 seconds, as the machine releases the plate after each image. You will be asked to remain still and hold your breath while each X-ray is taken. Later that day a radiologist will interpret the images. If there are abnormalities, your doctor will contact you.
But don't depend entirely on the mammograms. About 15 percent of the tumors you can feel in the breast never appear on a mammogram. That's the reason why every woman should do a breast self-examination at least once a month. Once you become familiar with your breast, it should be easy to recognize any abnormality that occurs.
The early stages of breast cancer are completely without symptoms. But as a tumor grows in the breast, you might feel some lumps or very hardened areas of the breast or of the tissue underneath your arm, your breast might change in size as compared to the other, you might have some discharge from the nipple, the nipple might invert internally, or there might be some discoloration of the skin of the breast. While taken individually, these symptoms don't necessarily mean that you have breast cancer, they are all signs that should be brought to the attention of your doctor immediately.
Once breast cancer is suspected, whether it's on a diagnostic mammogram or otherwise, other tests will follow—usually a biopsy, because this is probably the only way to make sure you have or don't have cancer. Biopsies involve removing a small sample of the suspect tissue for further examination under a microscope by a pathologist. Not only do pathologists look for the cancer, they also seek to determine what kind of receptors—estrogen or progesterone—the cancer tissue has. The receptors help determine what type of therapy you will receive for the cancer; there are specific therapies directed at each type of receptor that improve the outcome.
The "stage" or location of the cancer is also determined during the diagnosis. If it's located in a lobule or duct of the breast, the cancer is at Stage 0. If the tumor is less than 2 centimeters but has not spread beyond the breast itself, it's Stage 1.
Stage 2 involves tumors that are less than 2 centimeters and have migrated beyond the breast to the lymphatic nodes, or are greater than 2 centimeters and haven't spread outside the breast.
Stage 3 involves more advanced breast cancers, greater than 5 centimeters, that have spread to the lymphatic nodes under the arm.
Stage 4 is metastatic cancer, meaning that it has spread outside the breast to other organs.Surgery plays a major role in the treatment by essentially removing as much of the cancer as possible. For the very early stages of breast cancer, the treatment is called a lumpectomy, which is the removal of the tumor and a little bit of normal tissue around the tumor. A lumpectomy is usually combined with radiation therapy.
Partial mastectomies involve removing a larger piece of the breast.
More advanced cancers are treated with modified radical mastectomies, meaning that the entire breast and the lymph nodes are removed. Most women who have total breast removal get reconstructive surgery in order to create a substitute breast mound. Those with high stages of cancer often also receive chemotherapy, with surgery or without surgery, in order to decrease the risk of the cancer's recurrence, though the side effects of chemotherapy can be considerable.
Similarly, radiation therapy, which uses high-energy X-rays to kill cancer cells, is often used to reduce the risk of recurrence and to kill tumor cells that may be living in lymph nodes. Depending on whether the tumor expressed estrogen or progesterone receptors, patients may also receive hormonal therapy. Patients whose tumors expressed estrogen, for example, may receive an estrogen-blocking drug called tamoxifen for five years after their surgery.
Ask Dr. Manny: Not for Women Only
"Dr. Manny, why is it that when we talk about breast cancer, it's always a reference to women's breast cancer? Men have breasts, too. Why don't they get breast cancer?"
Good point. Most people don't realize it, but men can develop breast cancer, too. All cells in the body can undergo cancer, including a man's breast cells. But because women have many more breast cells than men do, and perhaps because a woman's breast cells are constantly exposed to the growth-promoting effects of female hormones, breast cancer is one hundred times more common in women than in men.
Still, each year, there are almost 2,000 cases of invasive breast cancer in men, and, stage for stage, the survival rates are equal in men and women. Men usually do not get mammograms, but self-examination is important. Most breast lumps in men are due to gynecomastia, the most common male breast disorder. Gynecomastia is an increase in the amount of a man's breast tissue due to hormonal changes, but it is not cancer.
Follow-up is very important for anyone who has been diagnosed with breast cancer. Women should be checked every three to four months. The longer they are free of disease, the better their long-term prognosis. After their five-year anniversary, they may need to see their doctor only once a year.
Take breast cancer seriously. It's a very deadly disease. But it's also very curable if caught early in the game.
Dr. Manny Alvarez serves as Fox News Channel's senior managing health editor. He also serves as chairman of the department of obstetrics/gynecology and reproductive science at Hackensack University Medical Center in New Jersey. For more information on Dr. Manny's work, visit AskDrManny.com.

It turns out there's no shortcut to getting Kylie Jenner's much talked-about plump pout.
In the latest episode of E!'s "Keeping Up with the Kardashians," Scott Disick reveals that it takes the 17-year-old reality star 40 minutes to draw on her lips.
"Have you seen her do her lipstick? It takes like 40 minutes, and then she, like, pulls one lip, pushes one out," he said in the episode, which aired Sunday night. "I don't understand why everybody thinks it's so cute to duck [your lips] out!"
PHOTOS: Kendall Jenner Takes Over the Runways
He also joked, "You should want your nose to almost hit your lip. Get it up there! Plump her up!"
Not surprisingly, Kylie agreed.
"That's what I think!" she said.
Kylie's larger than life lips have been the subject of constant scrutiny, sparking plastic surgery rumors. But she shut down those rumors in January.
"You guys have watched me grow up since I was 9. My face is going to get different," she told Cosmo about her changing appearance. "Now, I know how to do my makeup, contour and everything. I'm not against surgery. I'd never say no, but I don't desire it right now."
Last October, her big sister Kim also weighed in on the rumors, revealing that the part-time model's signature style is all about the lip-liner.
"I go into her room and I'm like, 'What liner do you wear?' because she only wears lip-liner and then she fills it in," Kim said in an interview posted to PixiWoo's YouTube channel. "She doesn't wear a lipstick or a gloss."
PHOTOS: Did Kylie and Kendall Go Too Far with This Controversial 'DuJour' Photoshoot?
In October, Kylie hit back at her lip critics, tweeting that she was "bored" of all the talk.

(Taco Bell)
It's been only a few weeks since Taco Bell first announced their Love and Tacos sweepstakes, but it looks like the taco chain may already have a winner.
Diane Nguyen, a 31-year-old from Los Angeles, and her groom-to-be Nick entered Taco Bell's contest in the hopes of winning an all-expenses-paid trip to Las Vegas, where they will become the very first couple to marry at Taco Bell's new on-site chapel.
TACO BELL TO OFFER WEDDING PACKAGES AT LAS VEGAS LOCATION
Along with her entry, Diane submitted a photo of herself in a homemade wedding dress she crafted entirely from Taco Bell food wrappers and hot glue:
According to Nguyen, she and her fiancé heard about the contest when they were on vacation in Southeast Asia, and immediately began work on the dress as soon as they returned home. They also enlisted the staff at their local Taco Bell to help set up a photoshoot.
A post shared by Diane Nguyen (@dianesaurusrex) on Mar 2, 2017 at 8:22am PST
Nguyen's hard work paid off, and she was chosen Monday as one of just 10 finalists in the restaurant's Love and Tacos contest.
It's time to spill the beans. We have been engaged for 4 years, and together for 10. Taco Bell has been there through the years, from the after school runs, to late meals after work (or a night of partying). Our love for each other is as cheesy as a quesadilla. We're nachos getting married, it's going to be a Las Vegas tacover. Lettuce celebrate our love at the Taco Bell Chapel in Vegas, cuz we are ready to guac and roll. #loveandtacoscontest #tacobelle #burritodress #iloveyou Link in the bio!! https://www.tacobell.com/loveandtacos/161600
A post shared by Diane Nguyen (@dianesaurusrex) on Feb 26, 2017 at 8:51pm PST
Final judging is expected to take place on Tuesday, Mar. 7, with the contest winner to be announced "on or around" Mar. 16, according to the official contest announcement.
Still, the creative California-based couple faces some stiff competition from their fellow contestants, including one woman who got engaged to her fiancé in a Taco Bell and says she "will riot if we aren't married in one."

Taco Bell is ramping up its presence overseas in 2017.
The popular taco chain just opened a new outpost in Shanghai, China according to the Wall Street Journal-- its first in 8 years.
The new Taco Bell will be "adapted to local tastes" and will incorporate new sauces (like spicy Sriracha), a shrimp and avocado burrito, spicy fried chicken and even Mexican fries.
IS THIS TACO BELL'S CHEAPEST MENU ITEM EVER?
Yum Brands, which also manages Pizza Hut and KFC brands in the country previously operated a series of restaurants under the "Taco Bell Grande" name but closed all locations in 2008.
Now there's a new push to open more Taco Bells in China-- and eveyrwhere else in the world. Several outposts are planned for other big Chinese cities in 2017 "to test the waters for a possible nationwide rollout," with a goal to reach 1,000 international locations by 2022.
And Taco Bell isn't just branching out to new countries. They're also shaking up the menu.
On Jan. 26, the chain says it will finally release its chicken-shelled taco nationwide.
FOR THE LATEST FOOD & DRINK FEATURES FOLLOW FOX LIFESTYLE ON FACEBOOK
The "Naked Chicken Chalupa" incorporates traditional chalupa fillings into a slab of fried chicken that's bent into the shape of a taco shell. The chain previously tested the new menu item at several locations last year.
It's not the first time the chain has molded chicken into unique positions. Taco Bell recently started serving fried chicken "chips" with dipping sauce.

Taco Bell is spreading its wings in 2017-- literally.
The taco chain is now testing some decidedly non-Mexican fare including Volcano Crispy Chicken Chips (its take on chicken nuggets) and seasoned french fries loaded with nacho cheese sauce, pico de gallo and sour cream.
The new products are currently being tested at select locations in Irvine, Calif., home to Taco Bell's headquarters. The fried items were also spotted in Knoxville, Tenn., according to Eater.
What Is This You Say? Taco Bell Is Serving Loaded Fries And Chicken Nuggets? What The What? https://t.co/RSr0wmmVBX pic.twitter.com/ZZyEjYlvS9
— Brotips (@brotips) December 30, 2016
HOW TO MAKE MCDONALD'S FAMOUS NUGGETS AT HOME
So will chicken "chips" unseat the almighty McNugget?
Maybe, if you like your chicks to have a kick. The triangle nuggets, made with marinated white meat chicken, are being touted as slightly spicy, and come with a side of "Lava Sauce."
The loaded habanero fries, meanwhile, may be new to U.S. customers, but according to Business Insider, several international Taco Bell locations in Japan, Chile and Canada have already featured fries on the menus. Taco Bell in Guatemala even has a whole menu dedicated solely to french fries.
While the chain may be experimenting with some heavier items in select locales, nationally, Taco Bell is trying to lighten up a little. In its 2017 New Year's commitment statement, the chain said it's doing away with "XL soda cups," reducing sodium across its menu and will "remove all antibiotics important to human medicine from its chicken across U.S. restaurants" by early 2017. Also, where possible, the chain plans to remove "preservatives and other additives from its food by 2018 across its U.S. restaurants."
FOR THE LATEST FOOD FEATURES FOLLOW FOX LIFESTYLE ON FACEBOOK
The Volcano Crispy Chicken Chips are $1 for a pack of six and a fully loaded order of fries is just $1, too.
Many Taco Bell devotees are ecstatic about the new offering.
Taco Bell is testing basically nachos but with french fries in Irvine. I mean, I had no reason to be in Irvine… BUT I DO NOW.
— James Cervantes (@VengefulWalnut) January 4, 2017
Taco Bell teases a hungry nation with spicy lava chicken chips https://t.co/4vG9oOQwDE pic.twitter.com/iBhHEh0MB1
— Amy Lee (@sgamylee) January 4, 2017
But not everyone is convinced the taco chain has what it takes to compete in the fry world.
@HarmonicaCave Taco Bell having fries is downright unnatural
— Beth Goodin (@BethGoodin) January 4, 2017
Taco Bell's New Volcano Crispy Chicken Chips Resemble Neither Volcano Nor Chicken
— Pearlie Tewksbury (@PearlieTewksbur) January 4, 2017
If you're a fried food fan outside the Irvine or Knoxville metro areas, it might be time for a little road trip.

The Naked Crispy Chicken Taco is a fried chicken lover's dream.
Looks like the Naked Chicken Chalupa's fried chicken taco shell might soon be making its way to Taco Bell fans nationwide.
Though the new menu item, formerly called the Naked Crispy Chicken Taco, has not been officially approved for a national launch yet, Taco Bell spokeswoman Kat Garcia tells BuzzFeed "the results and consumer feedback are very encouraging."
"We're just planning what's the right the timing."

The new Crave More menu has items for just 79 cents.
Taco Bell wants you to "live mas" for less than a buck.
The taco chain is throwing its hat into the uber-cheap fast food wars with a brand new menu that makes a lot of sense for those with just a few, well, cents.
The chain is testing a "Crave More" menu in Omaha, Neb. that features menu items at three price tiers: just 79, 89, and 99 cents, according to Brand Eating.
Along with the new price points come new menu items as well including Queso Bean Burrito, Flamin' Hot Fritos Taco, Veggie Tostada, Queso and Chips, and Queso Beef Burrito.
At the 79 cent price mark, you can get Cinnamon Twists or a Cheesy Roll-Up, which are currently priced at $1 on the chain's existing value menu.
For 89 cents, you can get a Queso Bean Burrito, Flamin' Hot Fritos Taco, or a Veggie Tostada.
The rest of the items are priced at a mere 99 cents.

McDonald's is ditching preservatives in its Chicken McNugget.
(Copyright 2016 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This m)
McDonald's chicken McNuggets are about to get a little bit McHealthier.
Like the Twinkie, McNuggets are practically a culinary punchline, a symbol of hyper-processed fast food with a list of ingredients that reads like a chemistry exam.
In 2014, the chain tried to dispel some of the pink slime rumors with a video about how the nuggets are made. But now McDonald's is going a step further to simplify the recipe.
The new recipe contains ingredients like lemon juice solids and rice starch.
The world's biggest hamburger chain says it is testing a version without artificial preservatives.
It's the latest move by McDonald's to try to catch up with changing tastes in market motivated by increasingly health conscious eaters. And the Golden Arches hopes it can turn around its business, which has lost customers in recent years.
The new McNugget recipe is "simpler," and "parents can feel good" about it, the fast-food company said.
While McDonald's did not give full details about what is or isn't in the test recipe, it said the new McNuggets do not have sodium phosphates, widely used food additives that the company has said can keep chicken moist. Also, the McNuggets will not be fried in oil containing the artificial preservative TBHQ.
Few details have been released but the recipe reportedly contains more recognizable-- and easily pronounced-- ingredients like lemon juice solids and rice starch.
Chicken McNuggets have become an often-mocked symbol of heavily processed fast food since they were introduced in the 1980s. The breaded and fried nuggets are made of ground-up chicken rather than intact chunks of meat and are delivered to stores frozen.
In 2003, the company started using only white meat in the McNugget. The preservative-free version marks the first major makeover to the chicken since that time.
The company said it began testing the new recipe in about 140 stores in Oregon and Washington in March. The test was first reported by Crain's Chicago Business.
As people pay closer attention to food labels, companies across the food and drink industry have adjusted recipes to remove ingredients that may sound unappetizing.
Last year, McDonald's changed its grilled chicken recipe to replace sodium phosphates with vegetable starch and to remove maltodextrin, which was used to increase browning.
The McNugget test reflects the sensitivities of parents of young children in particular. McDonald's has long targeted families, with its Happy Meals and Ronald McDonald mascot.
But does the new McNugget taste the same?
McDonald's said it is in the process of collecting feedback from customers and did not say when it might launch the new recipe nationally.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.

What is it about chicken nuggets?
Is it the crispy, crunchy exterior? The meaty goodness inside? Or the satisfying ability of every bite sized morsel to perfectly protect any type of dipping sauce?
Regardless of how or why we enjoy them, one thing is certain: Americans love fried chicken nuggets. Tyson says it ships over 22,000 tons of chicken nuggets a year.
Even those pesky pink slime rumors couldn't stop McDonald's from slinging one of its signature menu items. By some estimates, the chain sells upwards of 4.8 billion nuggets annually.
Now the chain is undergoing a big push to distance itself as a dominating fast food force and is testing a version of nuggets without any preservatives or artificial additives in its McNugget mixture. But the simplified McNugget is still in test mode—and it's not nationally available (the chain hasn't announced when it plans to roll out the new nugget).
RECIPE: HOMEMADE CHICKEN NUGGETS
If you're trying to cut those pesky extras from your diet but can't give up a good deep-fried nug, we've got the perfect recipe for you to try at home.
These homemade nuggets from  have only 12 ingredients—and we promise no pink slime is involved.
Like what you see? Check out more recipes from Grumble.

See what's behind the pink slim rumor.
Who could forget the disturbing pictures of pink slime used in fast food that surfaced a few years ago?
Although McDonald's Chicken McNuggets are typically cited as one of the foods made with meat treated with ammonium hydroxide --aka pink slime -- McDonald's says that since 2003 they're  made with all USDA-inspected white meat.
Still, the fast food giant battles with this image problem.
To help, McDonald's Canada released a new behind-the-scenes video last week showing how McNuggets are made to help convince diners McNuggets are just what they claim to be: chicken.
"Our latest videos aim to combat the misinformation and tell the truth about this iconic product – that Chicken McNuggets are made from chicken breast, a few seasonings, along with a natural proportion skin, used both for flavour and as a binder," McDonald's Canada spokeswoman Gema Rayo told FoxNews.com.

A recent study show that chicken nuggets contain less than half of chicken meat --with the rest comprising bone, blood vessels and organs.
Despite their somewhat controversial history, Americans love chicken nuggets--even after reports reveal what they're really made of.
The most recent is from a study published in The American Journal of Medicine.  Researchers at the University of Mississippi Medical Center in Jackson dissected two chicken nuggets and discovered they contained 50 percent or less chicken meat, with the rest consisting of fat, blood vessels, nerve, cartilage or pieces of bone, according to Reuters.
Dr. Richard D. deShazo-- lead author of  "The Autopsy of Chicken Nuggets Reads 'Chicken Little'"-- had his team buy a box of chicken nuggets from two national food chains, the names of which they won't disclose.  The researchers picked one chicken nugget from each box to be preserved, dissected and stained, then examined under a microscope.
They discovered that nugget number one was about 50 percent muscle tissue such as from the breast or thigh. The rest of it was made from fat, blood vessels and nerves, specifically the cells that line the skin and internal organs of the chicken.
Nugget number two was 40 percent muscle. The rest was fat, cartilage and bone.

Kathy Griffin, left, and Ashton Kutcher.
Kathy Griffin says Ashton Kutcher's actually a "d-bag."
Griffin's new book is "an A-Z compendium of the celebrities [the comic's] met over the years," from Michael Jackson to Kutcher.
"We co-hosted a charity event in 2005 for uBid.com," she writes in "Kathy Griffin's Celebrity Run-Ins," out from Flatiron Books. "Kutcher, my co-host, did not speak to me once. It was bizarre and rude and made me feel as if he thought I was beneath him … Three years later, I'm grabbing something to eat … and who should walk in but Kutcher and Demi Moore. I smiled and waved. Nothin'. If you won't say hi to me in the Mexican takeout joint, you're a d-bag."
Griffin celebrated her book this week at hot spot Casa Neta.
"She ordered tres leches cake for the table and told the waiter, 'No fruit or weird stuff! Just leche, leche, leche!'" a spy said.

Chip and Joanna Gaines, of HGTV's "Fixer Upper," weren't thrilled when news broke this week that some of their renovated homes were being used as vacation rentals, however the attention may have come at the perfect time for the couple.
The Gaines' own bed and breakfast, Magnolia House, opened up its bookings for January to July of 2017 on Thursday, and the property sold out of rooms within an hour, according to People magazine.
The Magnolia House was mentioned in a report by The Waco Tribune that revealed that some contestants on the HGTV show had been listing their reality TV renovated homes as vacation rentals through Airbnb and VRBO.
The Gaines' bed and breakfast -- located in McGregor, Texas, near Waco – sleeps eight people and must be booked as an entire unit, not room by room.
The pair opened the bed and breakfast earlier this year. It was renovated on season 3 of their show.
"Fixer Upper" follows the Gaines as they find wannabe homeowners in need of a new place who can't afford a home with all the bells and whistles. The couple then works to remodel an older home.
New episodes of "Fixer Upper" will air on HGTV in the fall.

"Fixer Upper" stars Chip and Joanna Gaines have yet to publicly address the controversial Buzzfeed article that called out the pastor of their church for making what they called anti-gay remarks.
However, Chip Gaines took to Twitter this weekend to tell fans to be respectful of the Buzzfeed article's author that many media experts and fans called "off base."
Regardless of our decision to make a statement about all this craziness, or not, I ask that people please! respect [Buzzfeed reporter] @KateAurthur," Chip Gaines wrote on Twitter.
He added Sunday morning, "In times of trouble.. you'll find the gaines family at church."
In times of trouble.. you'll find the gaines family at church.
— Chip Gaines (@chippergaines) December 4, 2016
Expert: Buzzfeed story on 'Fixer Upper' stars a 'hit piece'
Buzzfeed published an article last Tuesday about the Gaineses pastor Jimmy Seibert who has come out against gay marriage and called homosexuality a "lifestyle" choice and a "sin."
The media site came under fire for publishing the story which others called an unfair attack on the Gaines and a "non-story" as the couple themselves had not made those remarks.
HGTV told FOX411, "We don't discriminate against members of the LGBT community in any of our shows. HGTV is proud to have a crystal clear, consistent record of including people from all walks of life in its series."
The Gaineses did not return FOX411's request for comment.
You can find Sasha Savitsky on Twitter @SashaFB.

It's not exactly clear why Buzzfeed chose to publicly shame Fixer Upper hosts Chip and Joanna Gaines. Nor do we know why the online publication attacked the Christian couple's church.
Maybe author Kate Aurthur got a speeding ticket while driving through Waco, Texas? Or maybe she dislikes shiplap? Or perhaps Buzzfeed simply employs virulent, anti-Christian bigots?
Click here for a free subscription to Todd's newsletter: a must-read for Conservatives!
We may never know. Regardless, their ugly attack on the Gaines family and Antioch Community Church in Waco cannot be undone.
"The real shame is not on the Gaines family, but on this media inquisition of Christianity," National Religious Broadcasters president Jerry A. Johnson told me.
Earlier this week, Buzzfeed raised questions about the Gaines' family church and its position on same-sex marriage.
So let's cut to the chase – is Antioch Community Church anti-gay?
"Absolutely not, Pastor Siebert told me in an exclusive interview. "We are not only not anti-gay, but we are pro-helping people in their journey to find out who God is and who He has made them to be."
The pastor told me he was surprised by the controversy surrounding a message he delivered more than a year ago pointing out that people from all different walks of life attend the church.
"For us – our heart has always been to love Jesus, preach the word of God and help people in their journey," he said.
Click here to continue reading Todd Starnes column at ToddStarnes.com.
Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary. His latest book is "The Deplorables' Guide to Making America Great Again." Follow him on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

Each episode of HGTV's "Fixer Upper" starts off with hosts Chip and Joanna Gaines showing their clients three prospective homes. Once the future homeowners pick a property they seemingly have never seen before, the HGTV stars take over and turn the house into their clients' dream home.
However, the home-buying process depicted on the series may not be as it seems.
Season 3 participant David Ridley told us he had already purchased his home before he was selected to be on the show. In fact, he claimed that was a prerequisite for his selection for the series.
'Fixer Upper' star Joanna Gaines reveals husband Chip's big parenting mistake
"You have to be under contract to be on the show. They show you other homes but you already have one," he said. "After they select you, they send your house to Chip and Joanna and their design team."
A close look at the show's application seems to corroborate Ridley's claim. Some questions on the application imply that in many cases, applicants for the show have either already purchased or at least selected their future homes – without the help of the Gaines pair. The application also includes a portion where homeowners are told to upload photos of the home.
Question 19 on the application quizzes, "Where are you in the escrow process?" And No. 20 asks "What is the purchase price of your new home?" The questions that follow focus on whether or not the already-picked-out home has a yard, garage and driveway.
HGTV stars reveal they 'were broke' before 'Fixer Upper' fame

"Fixer Upper" star Chip Gaines is being sued by two former business partners in a million-dollar fraud lawsuit.
According to court documents obtained by KWTX, John L. Lewis and Richard L. Clark, former co-owners of Magnolia Realty, claim Gaines bought them out of the company two days before HGTV picked up "Fixer Upper" which "prominently featured the 'Magnolia' brand name."
Lewis and Clark filed their 24-page lawsuit Wednesday in state district court in Waco, Texas, and are seeking more than $1 million in damages and non-monetary relief, KWTX reports.
The scorned business partners say Gaines bought their shares of Magnolia Realty for $2,500 each while working with HGTV on the future hit show.
"In summary, at a time when only the Defendants knew that 'Fixer Upper' had been fast-tracked for a one-hour premier on HGTV and was on the verge of radically changing their lives and business enterprises, Chip Gaines conspired to eliminate his business partners -- notwithstanding their longstanding friendship-- in order to ensure that he alone would profit from Magnolia Realty's association with Fixer Upper," the lawsuit stated.
Gaines' attorney told Fox News, "We are confident that these claims will be found to be meritless, and it is disappointing to see people try to take advantage of the hard work and success of Chip and Joanna Gaines."
Gaines tweeted a Bible verse on Friday as reports of the lawsuit circulated.
The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it.
— Chip Gaines (@chippergaines) April 28, 2017
SubHeading 10 shocking HGTV scandals
Here are the top HGTV scandals:
You can find Sasha Savitsky on Twitter @SashaFB.

Madonna is very angry about the election of President Trump, and she let the crowd at the Women's March in Washington know it without holding back during a profanity-laced speech.
"I have thought an awful lot about blowing up the White House," the 58-year-old pop star said, before adding that she "knows this won't change anything."
Later, she dropped an f-bomb and used another vulgarity to give some advice to President Trump.
Expand / Contract
Madonna speaks during the Women's March on Washington, Saturday, Jan. 21, 2017, in Washington. (AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana)
"It seems as though we had all slipped into a false sense of comfort, that justice would prevail and that good would win in the end," the award-winning singer said.
"Well, good did not win this election. But good will win in the end," Madonna said.
Later, she performed two of her hits, "Express Yourself" and "Human Nature." During the latter, she led the crowd in a chant of "I'M NOT YOUR BITCH!"
A range of other performers and activists, including singers Alicia Keyes and Janelle Monae, trans advocate and writer Janet Mock,and filmmaker Michael Moore, also appeared onstage.

President Donald Trump addressed Snoop Dogg's new music video, where the rapper shoots a clown dressed as the president, on Twitter.
"Can you imagine what the outcry would be if Snoop Dogg, failing career and all, had aimed and fired the gun at President Obama? Jail time," Trump tweeted Wednesday morning.
A rep for Snoop Dogg did not return Fox News' request for comment.
DAN GAINOR: SNOOP DOGG NOT THE ONLY LIBERAL LUNATIC OBSESSED WITH ASSASSINATING TRUMP
In the video for the rapper's remixed version of the song "Lavender," by Canadian group BADBADNOTGOOD, Snoop Dogg raps about police brutality in a world inhabited by clowns.
"This is the final call," he says before pointing a gun at the clown dressed as Trump who is smoking a cigarette. Snoop pulls the trigger and a flag that says "bang" shoots out from the toy gun.
Later in the video, the Trump clown is wrapped in metal chains.

Snoop Dogg uses a toy gun to shoot a clown resembling President Donald Trump in a new music video.
In the video for the rapper's remixed version of the song "Lavender," by Canadian group BADBADNOTGOOD, Snoop Dogg raps about police brutality in a world inhabited by clowns.
"This is the final call," he says before pointing a gun at the clown dressed as Trump who is smoking a cigarette. Snoop pulls the trigger and a flag that says "bang" shoots out from the toy gun.
